---
layout: default
title: "10.1 Forums"
published: true
---

# 10.1 Forums

Forums are everywhere and are useful for promoting a sense of community and increasing user engagement. For some types of sites, they can also be useful for reducing customer service requests by enabling customers to answer each other's questions, which may have the side effect of proving to potential customers that your existing customers are happy - that you have "raving fans" among your customer base. Of course, that's assuming that your existing customers _are_ happy...

Many individuals and organizations are using chat apps such as _Discord_ to enable customers and fans to communicate with each other, but forums continue to be used in this way as well and one could argue that a Web forum is better for search engine optimization than a chat app.

In this tutorial, we're going to install a forum plugin that supports various styles of forums, including traditional forums, question and answer forums (similar to _Stack Overflow_), and others. It also supports multiple boards (AKA forum pages) per site and multiple forums per board, moderation with spam filtering and Akismet integration, and offers usergroups and member management that are integrated with the WordPress built-in user system.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _wpForo_ and install and activate the one called _wpForo Forum_ by _gVectors Team_.
3. _wpForo_ adds a single new item with many subitems to the _Admin menu_. Click that to go to the _wpForo Overview_ page.
4. Let's add a few forums to the default board. Hover over _Forum Dashboard_ on the _Admin bar_, hover over _Forums_, and click _Add New Forum_.
5. We're going to create two new categories and three new forums. A category is essentially a top-level parent forum and cannot contain discussion topics. Each forum must be placed inside a category. In addition, forums are hierarchical, meaning that each forum can have children, which are referred to as subforums. Let's create a new category called _Geekaway Friends_.
6. Check _Use as Category_ in the _Forum Options_ box.
7. Each category has a layout and all forums within that category follow the same layout. The _wpForo_ documentation provides information about [Forum Layouts](https://wpforo.com/docs/wpforo-v2/categories-and-forums/forum-layouts/) and you can also get a preview of the different choices here. We're going to use an _Extended Layout_, which lists all forums under the category along with links to the latest posts of each topic in each forum.
8. Next, click _Upload image_ and use _Instant Images_ to find a photo of a group of happy friends.
9. The slug will automatically be generated from the title unless we specify one here, so let's leave the slug blank.
10. You can select an icon from the _Font-Awesome_ library. For this one, let's choose a heart icon.
11. You can also specify a meta description for SEO purposes, but we'll leave that blank for now.
12. Take a look at the permissions that can be set for each usergroup. We'll talk more about those in a bit, but for now we'll keep the defaults.
13. You can also select a color for the forum, but we'll stick with the default.
14. Click _Publish_!
15. Click _Forums_ on the _Admin menu_ to see the list of _Categories and Forums_. Notice that we have the default category and forum and our new category. Click the plus button next to _Geekaway Friends_ to add a new forum to our new category.
16. Call this forum _Ad Hoc Group Activities_ and put _Traveling solo and looking to make friends doing group activities? This is the place for you!_ in the description box.
17. Note that the _Parent Forum_ is pre-populated with our _Geekaway Friends_ category. Click _Publish_.
18. Repeat the above steps to add a forum named _Reconnecting_ with a description of _Here's the place for reconnecting with people you met at Geekaway!_
19. Next, let's add a category and forum for questions and answers. From the _Categories and Forums_ admin page, click _Add New_.
20. Call this _Q&A_ and check the _Use as Category_ box.
21. Click the _QA_ layout and select an appropriate cover image.
22. For the _Forum Icon_, select a question mark.
23. Click _Publish_.
24. Add a new forum to the _Q&A_ category called _General Questions_ with a description of _If you don't see another category for your question, drop it here!_
25. Click _Publish_.
26. We don't need the main category or main forum, so use the delete button to delete _Main Forum_ and then _Main Category_.
27. Recall that the page listing our forums is called a _Board_ and we can have more than one. Click _Boards_ on the _Admin menu_ to see the information about our individual boards.
28. Of course, we only have one board right now. It has a title of _Forums_ and a slug of _community_. _wpForo_ created a page to host the board. You can see the _Page ID_ here. Hover over the board and click _Edit_.
29. Change the _Board Title_ to _Geekaway Forums_. 
30. Scroll down and notice the modules that can be enabled or disabled. There are also addons that you can get. The final options allow you to have WordPress be primarily a discussion board, referred to as a stand-alone forum. If you enable this option, the board's page becomes your WordPress front page. This isn't what we want, but it's nice to know that it is an option.
31. Click _Save_ to save our change to the title.
32. Back on the _Boards_ page, hover over the _Forums_ board and click _View_.

Take a look at the layout of this page. We'll skip over the navigation bar for a moment. You can see our two categories and three forums. You can see the number of posts and topics in each. Note the _Ask a question_ button in the _Q&A_ category. Clicking that brings up a form where you can ask your question, including a drop-down to choose the forum for the question. There is no button to add a topic to the other forums on this screen, but if you click on _Ad Hoc Group Activities_, there is an _Add topic_ button.

Members can subscribe to a forum to receive emails about new topics. They can also subscribe using _RSS_.

Continuing down, you can find the _Admin Control Panel_ and _Forum Information_.

Let's take a look at the navigation bar now. _Members_ is a directory of members. _Recent Posts_ is pretty self-explanatory. _My Profile_ allows you to see and modify your public profile, change your account information, see your recent activity, see your bookmarked/liked/disliked posts, and manage your subscriptions.

Now, you've probably noticed the message about spam. The _Settings_ link in this message is broken for me, but we're going to explore this and some other settings in our next tutorial.
