---
layout: default
title: "10.2 Forum Settings"
published: true
---

# 10.2 Forum Settings

_wpForo_ is quite configurable. Let's take a look at some of the options available to us.

1. Go to the _WordPress Admin area_, hover over _wpForo_ on the _Admin menu_, and click _Settings_.
2. There are so many settings! We won't be touching most of these, but I encourage you to peruse the options available as you have time.
3. Let's click _Spam Protection_.
4. A topic is like a thread. When someone asks a question or posts a message that is not a reply to another message, that is a topic. A post is an individual response to a topic, such as a reply or an answer to a question.
5. I recommend leaving the top section as-is, which enables spam control, does not automatically ban users suspected of spamming (leaving this up to manual action), and uses the default suspicion levels. Take a look at the documentation by clicking the question mark icons to learn more about each of the options.
6. The next section allows you to define "new registered user" based on the level of posts and determine how they are treated. You might consider requiring all posts by new users to be manually approved. The default settings don't go that far, but require a user to have posted 3 times before they can edit their profile information or post certain types of files. The final section can be turned on to monitor attachments for possible spam.
7. Click _Save Options_.
8. The plugin also supports using _Akismet_ to scan for spam. We're not going to use that right now, but just know that it is an option that is available. You simply need to install and activate the _Akismet_ plugin and then set up your _Akismet_ account. Then just make sure that the toggle here is set to _Yes_ and the rest is automatic.
9. Do you recall that we published the default _Privacy Policy_ page in week 5? We are going to provide a link to both the _Privacy Policy_ page and the _Contact Us_ page on the next settings screen that we look at, so let's grab the URL's for those two pages. Click _Pages_ on the _Admin menu_ and then find the _Contact Us_ page. Hover over _Contact Us_ and then right-click on _View_ and choose _Copy link address_ or the similar option to copy the URL for that page and then paste that somewhere safe for a moment.
10. Scroll down and repeat the process for the _Privacy Policy_ page.
11. Hover over _wpForo_ on the _Admin menu_ and click _Settings_.
12. Click the _Privacy & Forum Rules_ setting page.
13. Paste the URL for the _Contact Us_ page into the _Contact Information_ box.
14. Paste the URL for the _Privacy Policy_ page into the _Page URL to Website Privacy Policy_ box.
15. Click _Yes_ on _Checkbox: I Agree to Forum Privacy Policy_.
16. I strongly encourage you to provide terms of service and require that new users agree to those and also provide forum rules and require that new users agree to those as well. We're not going to do that for the tutorial site, and you aren't required to do so on your portfolio site, but on a production web site those pieces are absolutely essential!
17. Click _Save Options_.
18. Click _Login & Registration_ to go to that settings page.
19. Here are various options relating to allowing new user registrations, requiring email confirmation of new registrations, etc. You can override login and registration forms, set up _Facebook_ login, and make other adjustments. Note that you can require manual approval of new users. Since we are already allowing people to create new accounts without approval for posting blog comments, we won't turn this option on, but it's nice to know that it is available.
20. Next let's take a look at forum permissions. Click _Accesses_ on the _Admin menu_.
21. _Forum Accesses_ are sets of permissions and you can see that you have granular control over the permissions provided to each _Access_.
22. Click _Usergroups_ on the _Admin menu_.
23. These are groups of users and how they relate to the _WordPress_ user roles, both those that are built-in and those that are added by other plugins. You can create a usergroup to associate with a user role using the second table.
24. Notice in the first table, you can easily see the members assigned to a usergroup and change the associated user role.
25. We're going to set up a special usergroup for current and past guests and allow only them to participate in the _Geekaway Friends_ category. Click _Add New_.
26. For the _Usergroup Name_, enter _Geekaway Friend_.
27. Leave the _User Role_ as _Subscriber_.
28. Uncheck _Display on Members List_ and check _Can be also userd as Secondary Usergroup_.
29. Select a shade of green for the _Usergroup Color_.
30. Click _Save_.
31. Click _Forums_ in the _Admin menu_.
32. Click _Edit_ next to _Geekaway Friends_.
33. Take a look at the _Forum Permissions_ box. This allows you to determine which usergroup has which access for this forum. Change _Registered_ and _Guest_ to _No access_ and _Geekaway Friend_ to _Standard access_.
34. Click _Update_ and then make the same change for the two forums within the _Geekaway Friends_ category.

Now that we've made those changes, let's check out what we've done. First, though, we need to update our navigation bar to point to the URL of the actual forums.

1. Click _Appearance > Editor_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Edit the primary navigation menu.
3. Change the URL for the _Geek It Up!_ menu item to point to the _community_ slug.
4. Save your changes.

Now go to the home page and use the navigation bar to go to the _Geek It Up!_ page and you should see your forums. This is cool, but we need to add a featured image to this page. Also, it should say _Forums_ instead of _Forum_. Well, remember that _wpForo_ creates a page to host each board? That means that we can edit the page like any other.

1. Click _Edit Page_ on the _Admin bar_.
2. Change the title to _Forums_.
3. Change the featured image to one showing people talking.
4. Save your changes and view the page again.

Alright, now it's time to test the experience for your end users. Either use a different browser or use your primary browser's incognito/private browsing feature so that you can access the site as a guest without logging off. You should see only the Q&A category. Yay! Click _Ask a Question_ and you should be prompted to sign in. You should see a login form embedded in the forum layout with the JTC CAPTCHA included. I don't love this experience because the JTC input box doesn't have its JavaScript attached so the instructions to type _jtc_ doesn't appear until your browser shows the tooltip, which is slower than the JTC JavaScript. In a production setting, we would probably want to disable JTC and instead use a different CAPTCHA for this form. Let's set up a new account so that we can test the permissions. Click _Create Account_. This isn't a great experience, either. The custom fields that we have added are appearing differently than the default fields and the CAPTCHA isn't showing up correctly, either. Fill in the fields and try leaving the first name and last name blank. The form does work and it properly enforces the CAPTCHA and the required fields, but it just doesn't look great.

Once you've registered, you'll get an email to set your password. Do that and notice that still only the Q&A category appears on the Forums page. Now let's try adding the new usergroup to your new account and confirm that it works.

1. Return to the browser with your admin account and go to _wpForo > Members_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Hover over your new user account and click _Edit User_.
3. Scroll down to _Forum Profile Fields - wpForo_.
4. Under _Forum - Secondary Usergroups_, check _Geekaway Friend_.
5. Click _Update User_.

Now return to the browser that is signed in with your new account and refresh the page. You should now see the _Geekaway Friends_ category!

So that much works! What are we going to do about the poor user experience on the login and registration forms? Well, fortunately, _wpForo_ has a solution for us, although it's going to require that we make a few other adjustments. We'll explore that in the next tutorial.
