---
layout: default
title: "10.3 Forum CAPTCHA"
published: true
---

# 10.3 Forum CAPTCHA

You may have noticed that _wpForo_ supports _Google reCAPTCHA_. Fortunately, it also supports adding _reCAPTCHA_ to the default _WordPress_ forms. Let's do this.

1. Go to <https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin/create>.
2. Type _cisstudent.uma.edu_ for the _Label_.
3. Select _Challenge (v2)_.
4. Select _"I'm not a robot" Checkbox_.
5. In the _Domains_ box, type _cisstudent.uma.edu_
6. Click _Submit_.
7. Copy the site key and secret key and keep them somewhere safe.
8. Return to the _WordPress Admin Area_ and click _wpForo > Settings_ on the _Admin menu_ and then click _Google reCAPTCHA_.
9. Paste the site key and secret key into the proper locations.
10. Select _Yes_ for all options.
11. Click _Save Options_.

We could modify our registration form customizations to work with _wpForo_ - that is totally possible; however, instead we are going to disable the plugin that we created to implement them.

1. Go to _Plugins_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Find _geekaway-plugin_ and click _Disabled_.
3. While we're here, also disable the _Captcha by BestWebSoft_ plugin since we don't need that anymore, either.

We now need to disable _JTC-Lite_, which is part of _BPS Security_.

1. Go to _BPS Security > JTC-Lite_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Uncheck _Login Form_.
3. Click _Save Options_.

Time to test the registration and login forms again! You should now see _Google reCAPTCHA_ and it should work correctly.
