---
layout: default
title: "10.5 Privacy Page"
published: true
---

# 10.5 Privacy Page

When we published the _Privacy Policy_ page in week 5, I said that we would be revisiting it in the future and that time is now. As you may recall, our _Privacy Policy_ currently contains draft text that will need to be modified. _WordPress_ provides a tool that will help us do that.

1. In the _Admin area_, select _Settings > Privacy_ from the _Admin menu_.
2. Read through the information shown here.
3. If you don't see _Privacy Policy_ selected in the _Change your Privacy Policy page_ drop-down, select it and then click _Use This Page_.
4. Hold _Control_ and click _Edit_ to edit the _Privacy Policy_ page in a separate tab so that you can easily switch between the _Policy Guide_ and the _Privacy Policy_ page editor.
5. Click the _Policy Guide_ tab.
6. This handy guide from _WordPress_ provides extensive information about what should be included in your privacy policy. Individual themes and plugins can additionally provide theme- and plugin-specific suggestions that appear at the bottom of this guide. For example, if you click to expand _Forminator Forms_, it indicates that IP addresses, names, and email addresses may be captured and provides recommended text. Note that individual plugins can provide more than one section of recommendations. For example, _Forminator_ provides suggestions for forms, polls, and quizzes so that if you aren't using all three of the form types, you can easily differentiate between what needs to be mentioned for each.

For a site that is intended to be used in production, you would want to use the _Policy Guide_ as reference and modify the _Privacy Policy_ page as appropriate. The _Policy Guide_ can help you ensure that you are covering the items that should be covered for the specific themes and plugins listed there, but you may have other plugins (or even your theme, as is our case) that might not be listed here and yet might be collecting information, since themes and plugins aren't required to contribute to the _Policy Guide_. Additionally, you may be using tools other than themes and plugins, such as HTML that you have embedded in pages, video and social network embed codes, etc. that might also collect information that needs to be handled. Ultimately, you are responsible for understanding your legal obligations and fulfilling them. In addition to the _Policy Guide_ and your own knowledge and experience, you should seek qualified legal counsel to assist with drafting and/or review your policy.
