---
layout: default
title: "10.6 Optional Tutorial: Remote Management"
published: true
---

# 10.6 Optional Tutorial: Remote Management

As you may imagine, the more _WordPress_ Web sites that you build and maintain, the more work it will become. While automatic backups and updates are a significant help, tools for monitoring all of the sites that you are responsible for in one location can be invaluable. As I mentioned last week, such tools sometimes enable you to sign in with a single click, which is especially useful if you have multiple people on your team as you can set up a single account for your company on client sites and then each team member simply needs access to the management tool that can sign them into the shared account without needing to know or enter credentials.

Such tools also help you get an overall picture of sites needing updates, sometimes allow you to monitor site uptime and be notified of sites that are unavailable for some reason, monitor performance, monitor search engine optimization, and keep track of various other metrics and details. Some such tools even warn you if themes or plugins that you are using have not been updated in a period of time or have open security issues. Since such tools are popular with Web development agencies, they also in many cases provide whitelabeled reports that can be distributed to your clients and provide metrics that help demonstrate the value that your services are providing.

When it comes to simplifying installations and updates, many hosting control panels provide software managers that will notify you when your WordPress installations are out of date or when themes and plugins are out of date. [_Softaculous_](https://softaculous.com/) is one such software manager that is integrated into some of the most popular Web hosting control panels, including [_cPanel_](https://cpanel.net/) and [_Plesk_](https://www.plesk.com/).

[_WPMU DEV_](https://wpmudev.com/), the company behind _Forminator_ and _Hustle_, provides an extensive remote site management tool called [_The Hub_](https://wpmudev.com/site-management/) that is included with all of their plans. In addition to many of the features mentioned above, _The Hub_ also includes client billing tools and deep integration with the company's plugins. Of course, _The Hub_ is provided in addition to access to the paid features of their plugins as well as their respected 24/7 WordPress development support.

Other remote site management services for _WordPress_ include [_ManageWP_](https://managewp.com/), [_InfiniteWP_](https://infinitewp.com/), and [_UpdraftCentral_](https://updraftplus.com/updraftcentral/) from the makers of the popular [_UpdraftPlus_](https://updraftplus.com/) backup and migration plugin.

Let's walk through how to set up _ManageWP_:

1. Go to <https://managewp.com/> and enter your email address to create a free account.
2. Follow the set-up wizard until it asks you to provide the URL to your WordPress installation and then click the _Skip_ link.
3. Click the plus sign and then click _Add website_.
4. Enter the full URL to the front page of your tutorial site.
5. Click _Add website_.
6. You will be prompted for your WordPress credentials. Because of the CAPTCHA that we are using, _ManageWP_'s installation bot will not be able to sign in - a con to the pro that is our security. Consequently, click _Use connection key instead_.
7. To get a connection key, we will need to install the _ManageWP Worker_ plugin. In a separate tab, go to the _Admin area_ of your WordPress site and click _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_.
8. Search for _ManageWP Worker_. Install and activate the plugin, which is by _GoDaddy_ and has over a million active installations.
9. Go to the _Plugins_ page and scroll down to _ManageWP Worker_ then click _Connection Management_ under the description.
10. Copy the _Connection key_ and then paste it into the proper box back in the _ManageWP_ tab and click _Add website_.
11. After a few seconds, the site will be active on _ManageWP_ and you will see the _Dashboard_ page for the Web site, showing updates needed, optimizations that can be performed, recommended services, and pending comments.
12. Although many of the features are paid, you can manage plugins, themes, comments, and users with the free plan and can use one-click sign in. You can also enable scheduled updates, allowing you to perform updates when the site is less likely to be busy. And, you can monitor traffic using _WordPress Analytics_ or _Google Analytics_.
13. Backups, Security Check, Performance Check, and Client Report have both free and paid versions. If you want to use one of those features, you can click to activate it and then select the free version.
14. You can also assign sites to clients, making it easy to keep track of which site belongs to which client.
15. You can keep notes about sites and the work that you do to them.
16. _ManageWP_ even shows you if a plugin has a known security risk. For example, at the time that I was preparing this, the version of _Contact Form 7_ that I had installed had a cross-site scripting vulnerability.

I hope this has given you an idea of the types of things that are possible with a remote management solution. It can not only help to streamline your processes but also provide value to your clients and help you demonstrate that value to them.
