---
layout: default
title: "6.3 Image Sliders"
---

# 6.3 Image Sliders

Similar to a slide show, an image slider is a Web site element that displays one image or video at a time with the image/video being replaced by another either after a set amount of time or when the visitor clicks to view the next slide. Often image sliders also include text, either superimposed on the image/video or appearing next to the image/video. WordPress doesn't natively provide an image slider block, but there are a number of image slider plugins available. We're going to install one called _Soliloquy_.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your tutorial site, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _Soliloquy_.
3. Find _Slider by Soliloquy – Responsive Image Slider for WordPress_.
4. Click _Install Now_.
5. Click _Activate_.

Now that it is installed _Soliloquy_ has its own section on the _Admin menu_. Click it to take a look. There is no need to upgrade to Pro for this course - the Lite version provides everything that we need! If you find that you like it and use it on a published site, perhaps consider then if you want to support the plugin financially and/or if you need the features only offered in the Pro version.

1. Click _Add New_ to add a new slider.
2. Add a title of _Home page slider_.
3. Click _Select Files from Other Sources_.
4. Select a few of the photos that we have uploaded, one by one, clicking the photo and then _Insert Into Post_.
5. Now that you have them selected, you can reorder and edit photos.
6. Click _Configuration_ and change the dimensions to 600x400.
7. Take a look at the other settings available to you under _Configuration_ and _Misc_.
8. Click _Publish_.

We now have our slider. Let's add it to the home page.

1. Click the button on the _Admin bar_ to go to the home page.
2. Click _Edit site_.
3. Scroll down to the _News_ section. For now, let's put this above the news. Click on _News_ and then click _Options_ and click _Add before_.
4. Type _/soliloquy_ to add a Soliloquy block.
5. Click the drop-down and choose _Home page slider_.
6. Click _Save_.
7. Return to the home page and check out the slider!

We'll be making some changes to the home page in a few weeks and will likely move the slider at that point, but this works for now.

Hmm... Perhaps we should fix hero photo on the home page...

1. Click _Edit site_.
2. Click the hero photo and ensure that the _Cover_ is selected. If not, repeatedly click the _Select [parent]_ button until the _Cover_ is selected.
3. Scroll down in the _Settings_ pane and click _Clear Media_.
4. Click _Add Media_ and then _Open Media Library_.
5. Click _Instant Images_.
6. Search for _arcade machines_.
7. Click one.
8. Click _Select_.
9. Click _Save_.
10. Return to the home page to check it out.