# Video

As I mentioned when we were discussing the _Media Library_, WordPress will allow you to upload a video; however, videos uploaded via the _Media Library_ have to be under your PHP upload limit (2MB on the student server) and they are delivered the same way as any other file. Video hosting services use various methods and protocols to provide smooth streaming media regardless of bandwidth availability and they do this by transcoding video files based on device needs. Don't expect to upload a video to WordPress and have it play smoothly on every device because that requires a lot of technology that simply isn't available to WordPress on a standard hosting platform.

Fortunately, there are a number of ways to include video in your WordPress Web site. The most common way is to embed a video from an external video hosting platform such as YouTube or Vimeo. YouTube and other free social video sites are a great option because of the price (FREE!), but the last thing that you want on your marketing Web site is ads playing before your marketing videos. [Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/) and [Wistia](https://wistia.com/) are among many services that provide ad-free (and in some cases whitelabeled) video embedding for a price, so that's preferable for use on many Web sites. You use the company's app or Web site to upload and prepare the video, then you get an embed link or embed HTML code to use in WordPress. I'll show you how you would use each of those in this video. The third category of ways to use video in WordPress is to use a plugin that works with a video hosting service so that you upload the video to the external service via the plugin, use the plugin's interface to manage your videos, and then the plugin provides the embed code directly as a WordPress block. One popular such service is called [VideoPress](https://jetpack.com/videopress/) and is provided by our friends at [Automattic](https://automattic.com/) as a part of their huge plugin called [Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/). Jetpack provides many great free features as well as the paid features such as VideoPress. It's huge, though, and can sometimes significantly slow down Web sites. So, check it out, but use it with caution. Test it out on your hosting platform before you commit to using it on a published site.

We're going to use a YouTube video for our tutorial site.

1. Go to the _Accommodations_ page and click _Edit Page_.
2. Copy and paste the 6 headings and paragraphs from our starter content document into the page and then change the block type of the headings from _Paragraph_ to _Heading_.
3. There are a few different ways to insert a YouTube video in a WordPress page or post. The easiest is to just paste the link into a block. Copy <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dm9kWA5v_Ng> and paste it below the last paragraph.
4. WordPress uses a protocol called [oEmbed](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/wordpress/oembed/) to produce a beautiful embedded video that fills the width of the container. oEmbed is a great protocol, but it has some security implications, so WordPress has chosen only to support it for a set of whitelisted source URL's. The written instructions for this tutorial includes a link to learn more about the protocol and the sources that WordPress supports, as well as how to add your own sources.
5. As we saw in a prior tutorial, WordPress also provides a YouTube embed block. Let's see how that differs: click _Add Block_ below the video and search for YouTube. Paste the URL and click _Embed_.
6. Actually, there is no difference! In fact, if you click the _Edit URL_ button on the popover for the first video, you'll see the same interface for changing the URL.
7. If you want to embed video from a site for which WordPress doesn't provide a block or support oEmbed, you can use the _Custom HTML_ block along with embed code provided by the site. To see how that works, go to the YouTube link and click the _Share_ button below the video player. Then click _Embed_ and you will get a block of HTML code. Copy that.
8. Now return to WordPress and add a _Custom HTML_ block.
9. Paste the code provided. The popover gives you the option to preview the HTML. With all three different embed methods in place, go ahead and save the page and then open it.
10. As you can see, if oEmbed and/or a WordPress block is an option for the video site you are using, that's generally going to give the best result; however, _Custom HTML_ works if that's the only option for you. We would just need to do some work to make this look better. In fact, if you place the _Custom HTML_ block inside a _Group_ block, that will ensure that the video lines up with the rest of the page.
