---
layout: default
title: "8.1 Contact Forms"
---

# 8.1 Contact Forms

A contact form is an essential element for almost all Web sites. In addition to providing a method for people to contact you, they can also be used for soliciting feedback and collecting leads.

As you might imagine, there are a number of plugins for WordPress that make it easy to build contact forms. One of the oldest and most popular contact form plugins is called [_Contact Form 7_](https://wordpress.org/plugins/contact-form-7/). Remarkably, there is no upgrade option - the plugin is completely free. There are also a number of other free plugins that can add features to _Contact Form 7_. Another very popular contact form plugin is called [_Forminator_](https://wordpress.org/plugins/forminator/), which is by [_WPMU DEV_](https://wpmudev.com/), a company that provides premium plugins and themes as part of a subscription package. While _Contact Form 7_ is super lightweight, fairly flexible, and has a little bit of a learning curve, _Forminator_ comes packaged with many more features, including a drag-and-drop form design tool, support for polls and quizzes, and many integrations, but also places a heavier burden on your Web site because of the size of the plugin and uses a fremium model where some of the features are locked behind a paid upgrade.

After vacillating between the options, I've decided that we are going to use _Forminator_ for this video, but I'm also including an optional tutorial that uses _Contact Form 7_ since it can be a better option if all you need is a simple contact form.

First, let's install and activate _Forminator_ by going to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.

Now, let's create a simple contact form for the _Contact Us_ page:

1. In the _Admin menu_, go to _Forminator > Forms_.
2. Click _Create_.
3. Choose the _Contact Us_ template and click _Continue_.
4. Type _Contact Us_ and click _Create_.
5. The four fields provided by the template are First Name, Email Address, Phone Number, and Message, the first two of which are required. Our client would like to provide an optional _Last Name_ field along with some fields that can be used to collect reservation information from potential guests while we await the availability of their online booking system. That way, our client can contact people who are interested in booking. Click _Insert Fields_.
6. Click _Select_ and _Field Group_ and click _Insert Fields_.
7. Click the _First Name_ field and select _Multiple_.
8. Use the toggles to turn on _First Name_ and _Last Name_.
9. Click _Settings_ and make the first name required and the last name optional.
10. Drag the _Select_ field above the name fields.
11. Click the _Select_ field and enter a label of _Reason for Contacting Us_.
12. In the _Options_ boxes, type: _Interested in Booking_, _General Information_, _Business Inquiry_, _Customer Service_, and _Other_.
13. Use the _Toggle_ buttons to display the values in addition to the labels and then type: _book_, _info_, _inquiry_, _service_, and _other_ in the respective boxes.
14. Change to the _Settings_ tab and mark the field as required.
15. Enter _reason_ in the _Query Parameter_ field.
16. Click _Apply_.
17. Edit the _Field Group_ and label it _Booking Information_.
18. Disable the _Field Repeater_ on the _Repeater_ tab.
19. On the _Visibility_ tab, add a _Rule_ that will show the group if _Reason for Contacting Us_ is _Interested in Booking_.
20. Inside the group, add _Number_ and _Datepicker_ fields.
21. Edit the _Datepicker_ field and label it _Date of Stay_ and set it to _Required_.
22. Edit the _Number_ field and label it _Number of Nights_, set it to _Required_, and set the _Maximum_ value to _30_.
23. Use the cog icon to duplicate the _Number of Nights_ field and call the new field _Number of Guests_.
24. Change to the _Behavior_ tab.
25. Click the message that appears after submission and change the conditions so that it only appears if the _Reason for Contacting Us_ is not _Interested in Booking_.
26. Add a second _Inline Message_ that reads, "Thank you for your interest in staying with us. We will be in touch as soon as possible to complete your reservation. _Please note that your reservation is not guaranteed until you have paid a deposit._"
27. Display that for 15 seconds and change the _Conditions_ so that it appears only if the _Reason for Contacting Us_ is _Interested in Booking_.
28. Scroll down on the _Behavior_ tab and select _Enable Honeypot protection_.
29. Select the _Email notifications_ tab and take a look at the settings available to you. Note that you can send notifications to multiple people, including sending an automatic response to the submitter.
30. Also take a look at the _Settings_ tab.
31. Click _Publish_.
32. The form is ready to use! You will be given a shortcode to copy, but since _Forminator_ provides a block to display the form, we don't care about the shortcode. Shortcodes were used in older versions of WordPress to add prebuilt components within the body of pages and posts, as well as in sidebar widgets. While there is a shortcode block that allows you to use shortcodes in the _Block Editor_ and _Full Site Editor_, it's preferable to use a dedicated block if one exists.
33. Go to _Pages > All Pages_ and edit the _Contact Us_ page.
34. Add a _Form_ block. Since you only have one form, it will appear. If you had more than one, you could change the form displayed by the block in the _Settings_ pane.
35. Add a paragraph above the form and enter the following: "Thanks for reaching out to us! We look forward to hearing from you and will be in touch as soon as possible. If you are interested in booking, _please note that your reservation is not guaranteed until you have paid a deposit. Please don't provide any payment information here - we'll collect that when we talk to you._"
36. Save the page.

Congrats! You have your form. Let's try it out and see how it works.

Submit the contact form twice. Once for general information and once for interest in booking. Note that the booking information appears only if the proper option is selected and that it is required but only if it is displayed.

Now that you have tested the form, let's check out what happens next. You should have received an email with the details that were submitted. You can also find the submissions under _Forminator > Submissions_ in the _Admin menu_.

Take a look at the integrations and reports available in _Forminator_. You can set up forms to subscribe people to e-newsletters, add people to your CRM, add tasks to your task list, or almost anything else you might want to do thanks to the _Webhook_ feature. Note that in the reports, you can see a conversion rate (the percentage of people who go to your form and then submit it) and even set up the report to be emailed to you monthly.

Next, check out _Forminator > Settings_. Here you can specify the email address that your form submission notifications come from, adjust the appearance of forms, enable CAPTCHA, enable payment providers, and more. Let's set up hCAPTCHA, a popular competitor to Google's reCAPTCHA:

1. On the _CAPTCHA_ tab on the _Forminator > Settings_ page, click _HCAPTCHA_.
2. Click the _Instructions_ link and then use the link to sign up for hCAPTCHA, which is free (there's a paid version, but you don't need it for this class).
3. You'll be given a site key. Copy that and paste it into the proper field in _Forminator_.
4. Click the button to generator a secret key and then paste that into the proper field in _Forminator_.
5. Click _Save Settings_ and then test to ensure that the hCAPTCHA preview works.
6. Edit your form by going to _Forminator > Forms_.
7. Add a _CAPTCHA_ field and choose _hCAPTCHA_ and leave the rest of the options as the default.
8. Save the form and then go to the _Contact Us_ page and test it one more time.
