---
layout: default
title: "8.1.5 Contact Forms, Continued"
---

# 8.1.5 Contact Forms, Continued

In the last tutorial, I forgot to show how the query parameter can be used to pre-populate a field value, so let's do that now!

Recall that our query parameter for the _Reason for Contacting Us_ field is _reason_. We can add this to the URL for a link to the contact form in order to prepopulate the field. We're going to update our _Book Now_ button in our site header so that it takes people to the contact page with _Interested in Booking_ pre-selected.

1. Go to the home page and click _Edit Site_.
2. Click _Edit_.
3. Click the _Book Now_ button in the header.
4. Click the _Link_ button to add a link.
5. Type _Contact_ and wait for the _Contact Us_ page's link to appear as an option then select it.
6. Click _Edit_ and add _?reason=book_ to the end of the URL.
7. Click _Save_.
8. Now click the _Book Now!_ link in the hero section and repeat the same steps.
9. Click _Save_ to save the templates.
10. Go to the home page and try one or both links to see what happens.
11. You may recall that _Interested in Booking_ was the default option anyway, so this isn't really helping us. Let's change that.
12. Edit the form and change the default option for the _Reason for Contacting Us_ to _General Information_.
13. Save the form and then test the _Book Now_ links again.
14. Then try the _Contact Us_ link to confirm that the original link shows _General Information_ in the drop-down, which confirms that the query parameter is working!
