---
layout: default
title: "8.2 Social Sharing Tools"
---

# 8.2 Social Sharing Tools

When it comes to marketing your business or Web site, social media has become an important part of the formula. In this tutorial, we are going to install a plugin that will help you encourage people who are on your site to share your content. In the next tutorial, we will talk about tools that you can use to save time posting your own content to social media.

I feel like a broken record, so I'm going to change my phrasing a bit. As with almost anything you might want to do in WordPress, various plugins have been created to make it easy to add icons to encourage visitors to share your content. Two of the oldest and most popular are _AddToAny_ and _Shareaholic_. _AddToAny_ has continued to focus on its core product of making it easy for people to share content to social media and has kept that product free, while _Shareaholic_ has continued to expand its offerings to provide a suite of content marketing tools, some of which require a paid upgrade. _Shareaholic_ is a fantastic tool if you are looking for more than just social sharing buttons and _Jetpack_ and _WPMU DEV_ are other sources of similar functionality that you might want to check out. In fact, in a later tutorial this week we are going to install a different plugin from _WPMU DEV_ that includes social sharing buttons in addition to the features we will be using. If you find yourself wanting social sharing buttons and the other features of that plugin, I recommend just installing that plugin to reduce the number of plugins that WordPress is loading.

_AddToAny_ provides what we need, though, and does so in a very light-weight manner, so let's install and configure that:

1. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_ and install and activate _AddToAny_.
2. Go to _Settings > AddToAny_ and take a look at the settings available.
3. _AddToAny_ provides two methods of displaying share buttons:
    1. The _Standard_ option shows the buttons above and/or below the content, and
    2. The _Floating_ option displays the buttons in a fixed position on the screen.
4. We're going to configure both options to see how they look and then decide which we want to keep. Notice that we can change the icon size and colors, but we'll leave those as-is. Click _Add/Remove Services_ and select _Facebook_, _Mastodon_, _X_, and _Email_.
5. Click the button to expand the options regarding the _Universal Button_. This button enables our visitors to share via other services that we haven't included in our list, so let's leave it enabled.
6. You can also specify a header that appears above the sharing buttons, but let's leave it as-is for now.
7. We can also configure if the buttons should appear above and/or below the content and which specific types of content they should appear on. So that we can make a judgement easily, let's choose _top & bottom_ but then uncheck all but the first option - we already know that we only want to show the buttons on our blog posts and only on the single post pages.
8. Click _Save Changes_.
9. Click the _Floating_ tab.
10. Under _Vertical_, click _Right docked_ to have the buttons float at the right edge of the screen. Note that you can further adjust the position and that by default the buttons are hidden on mobile screens, since they would tend to get in the way. Also, instead of anchoring to the screen, you can anchor to the content. If you do that, you will need to determine which CSS selector is best for targeting the content and will likely also want to hide the buttons until the page has been scrolled past the page header.
11. Click _Save Changes_.

Let's go to our first blog post to see what it looks like. The buttons appear above the post and below the post. You can click the different buttons to see how they work. Also note the floating buttons. If the buttons were anchored to the content, they would actually appear in the middle of the _Cover_ block, right next to the post title, which is why I suggested hiding them until scrolling past the header if you anchor the floating buttons to the content.

The floating buttons certainly stand out. We ran the options by our client, who said that while she wants to encourage sharing, she feels that the buttons above the content and floating on the side both clutter up the site, so she wants to display the buttons just at the bottom.

Let's go back to _Settings > AddToAny_ on the _Admin menu_ and turn off the floating buttons and then set the standard buttons to appear just at the bottom. By the way, the plugin uses a filter hook to display the standard buttons at the end of the content.

Once we've saved the changes, we can check to make sure that it looks good and we are done!
