---
layout: default
title: "8.3 Social Posting Tools"
---

# 8.3 Social Posting Tools

In the last tutorial, we talked about encouraging people to share your content on social media and other platforms. In this tutorial, we are going to discuss ways to simplify the process of posting your own blog posts to social media as you publish them. I'm going to show you some tools that you might use. I'm going to walk through how to use a couple of plugins and briefly show how you might use a cloud-based product rather than a plugin. Although you are welcome to follow along with the plugins, I recommend care because once the plugins are set up fully they may automatically post new content to your social profiles. So, feel free to just watch.

The first plugin that we will look at is called _Blog2Social_, which simplifies social posting but doesn't automatically post unless you upgrade to a paid plan:

1. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_ and install and activate _Blog2Social_.
2. Click _Blog2Social_ on the _Admin menu_.
3. The _Blog2Social Dashboard_ talks a little about the features and guides you through getting started. Click _Connect_ to be taken to the _Networks_ page.
4. Here you can choose from many social platforms to which you can share. Note the limits on the number of accounts per network. Also note that some options are limited to a paid version (denoted by _Smart_, _Pro_, _Business_, and _Agency_) and that many networks differentiate between profile/page types, such as both _Facebook_ and _LinkedIn_ differentiating between profiles for people and pages for organizations. I'm going to connect to my personal _LinkedIn_ profile, so I'll click _Connect Profile_ next to _LinkedIn_.
5. The exact process depends on the network. _LinkedIn_ has me confirm my password and then click _Allow_ after reviewing which permissions the plugin is going to receive.
6. Now we can see that my _LinkedIn_ profile is connected!
7. If we go back to the _Blog2Social Dashboard_, we can see that in addition to posting to social media upon publication, we can also post previously-published content. Click _Share Post_.
8. We're presented with all content types, but we can filter to just posts.
9. We can then click _Share on Social Media_ to publish to as many of our connected accounts as we want.
10. On the right side, we can determine which networks we are publishing this to.
11. We can adjust the text to post as well as the post title and description for each network. With a paid plan, we could also specify when we want the post published and change the image.
12. We can then click _Share_ to post to all of the networks selected.
13. Of course, mostly we are interested in how to post to social media upon publication, so let's look at that by editing our one blog post.
14. If you scroll down in the _Settings_ pane, you will find _Blog2Social: Autoposter_. This provides a link to the same place we were before. If you have a paid plan, you can also enable truly hands-off autoposting, but even with the free plan, the plugin saves you from having to go to each network when you want to share a post.

The next plugin that we are going to look at is called _Jetpack Social_. This is one part of the _Jetpack_ plugin from _Automattic_ and can be installed on its own if you don't want to use the rest of the _Jetpack_ tools, or you can enable it after installing the main _Jetpack_ plugin if you do plan to use other _Jetpack_ components. We are going to install the standalone plugin.

1. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_ and install and activate _Jetpack Social_.
2. Hover over _Jetpack_ on the _Admin menu_ and click _Social_.
3. _Jetpack_ requires you to sign in to a free _WordPress.com_ account to enable its functionality.
4. Now that you are registered and signed in, you can set up your social profiles by going to _Manage social media connections_.
5. Like with _Blog2Social_, you click _Connect_ for each individual network and then complete a process determined by the network. I can't see a way to post to my personal _Facebook_ profile or an organizational _LinkedIn_ page, but I might be missing something.
6. At this point, you can go back to _WordPress_ and click _Posts_ and then edit the blog post.
7. Rather than adding to the _Settings_ pane, _Jetpack Social_ provides its own pane that you can display by clicking the icon next to the _Settings_ pane icon.
8. You can choose which networks you want to post to, write a message to be shared with the blog post, and then click _Share Post_.
9. You can also get a preview of what your post will look like on each of the social networks.

There are many tools for managing your social media marketing efforts and many of them include a feature that will import content from an _RSS_ feed. _RSS_ stands for _Really Simple Syndication_ or _RDF Site Summary_, depending on who you ask, and is an _XML_-based Web feed that allows users and applications to view updates to a site. By the way, _RDF_ stands for _Resource Description Framework_ and _XML_ stands for _Extensible Markup Language_. Some people use _news aggregators_, also called _RSS readers_, to subscribe to feeds, in which case the aggregator periodically checks all subscribed feeds for updates and presents them to the user. _RSS_ is also used to syndicate content in order to make it available on various platforms. For example, _Mailchimp_ is an email marketing service that provides an option to monitor an RSS feed and send a summary of new posts on a specified schedule. Often, companies will use RSS feeds to deliver new blog posts to their mobile apps. And, there are public news sites that receive their content from various sources using RSS feeds. Also, Amazon once allowed bloggers to deliver their latest content to subscribers with Kindles using RSS feeds.

WordPress automatically provides [various feeds](https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/wordpress-feeds/). The primary one is accessible by going to your site's address followed by _/feed/_ and includes the most recent posts. You have the ability to control a couple of things about the feeds by going to _Settings > Reading_ on the _Admin menu_. Let's take a look at that. Here you can determine how many items appear in the feeds and whether the feeds include the full text of new posts or just the excerpt. Additional feeds can be created by plugins and themes and there are various plugins that allow you to create your own feeds. For example, some people who earn a living blogging will set their main feed to include excerpts only in order to bring people back to their blog where they display advertisements and then provide an alternate feed that includes the full text of posts and provide that to people who donate on a regular basis, such as through _Patreon_.

Let's say that you use a cloud-based tool to manage your social profiles and you want to use the tool's RSS aggregator to automatically post your latest post to your social profiles. _SocialBee_ is one such tool that I will use to demonstrate. I can add a new RSS feed here and I provide the URL of my site followed by _/feed/_. I can choose the profiles I want to share this to and the other settings that the tool provides. I can then save the feed and from there the tool will automatically check it periodically and post new blog posts as they are published. By the way, you could use a specific tag to indicate which posts get automatically shared. To do that, you would create the tag and then go to the tag's archive page. If you add _/feed/_ to that URL, it provides a feed that can be used in this same way.
