---
layout: default
title: "8.4 Newsletters and Lead Nurturing"
---

# 8.4 Newsletters and Lead Nurturing

During our survey of content management systems, we briefly discussed the concept of inbound marketing. One important aspect of inbound marketing is capturing and nurturing leads. _HubSpot Academy_ provides a short free lesson on [Understanding Lead Nurturing](https://academy.hubspot.com/lessons/understanding-lead-nurturing?library=true&library=true&q=lead%20nurturing), which I am including in the resources for this tutorial, so I won't go into the details here.

On our Web sites, we will ideally provide a number of free "offers" that allow you to collect information about leads and you then want to nurture those leads, thereby strengthening your relationship with them so that they will make a purchase when they are ready. In this tutorial, we will create one offer, a free weekly newsletter, which we will promote through a "slide-in" that appears in-page shortly after people first visit our site. Additionally, you could encourage your existing customers to subscribe to your newsletter in order to continue providing value to them, and hopefully also receiving additional value from them, either through additional sales and/or referrals.

To create a newsletter, I highly recommend using an email marketing service since ensuring email deliverability continues to become more and more complicated and such services have the details worked out. I'm going to briefly show you how to integrate [_Mailchimp_](https://mailchimp.com), one such service that provides a free introductory service level, with the plugin we are using, but please take note that you can complete the entire tutorial without signing up for any external service. The plugin that we will be using keeps track of email addresses collected for you, which you could then import into such a service manually.

The plugin that we will be using is called _Hustle_. Like _Forminator_, it is from _WPMU DEV_ and is provided through a "freemium" model, where the basic features are free and there are paid add-ons.

1. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_ and install and activate _Hustle_.
2. Click _Hustle_ on the _Admin menu_.
3. _Hustle_ provides three ways of collecting leads and highlighting promotions:
    1. Pop-ups show up over your page content automatically and can be used to highlight promotions and gain email subscribers.
    2. Embeds allow you to insert promotions or newsletter signups directly into your content automatically or with shortcodes - these are great if you have a dedicated landing page for a specific offer or if you have written a blog post that discusses an offer.
    3. Slide-ins can be used to highlight promotions without covering the whole screen.
4. Before we create our newsletter offer, I'm going to show you how to integrate _Hustle_ with _Mailchimp_ or another email marketing service. Click _Integrations_ in the _Admin menu_ under _Hustle_.
5. For the next few steps, feel free to just watch. Or, if you want to create a free _Mailchimp_ account, go ahead and pause the video now to sign up for one. If you already have a _Mailchimp_ account and want to follow along, that's great, too.
6. Under _Available Apps_, choose the app to which you want to connect and click the _plus_ sign next to it. Each service will have slightly different requirements. For _Mailchimp_, we only need an _API key_.
7. You'll find your _Mailchimp API Key_ by logging into _Mailchimp_, clicking on your _Account Menu_, choosing _Account & billing_, clicking _Extras_, and clicking _API Keys_. Then click _Create A Key_, provide a name, and click _Generate Key_.
8. Copy the _API Key_ provided by _Mailchimp_ and paste it into the dialog box in _Hustle_.
9. Provide an _Identifier_ (purely for your reference) and click _Connect_.
10. _Hustle_ confirms that the key works and shows _Mailchimp_ under your list of _Connected Apps_.
11. Alright, now it's time for everyone to follow along again. We are going to set up a _Slide-in_ for our newsletter, so click _Slide-ins_ on the _Admin menu_ under _Hustle_.
12. Click _Create_.
13. For the name, type _Weekly Newsletter_.
14. This slide-in can either collect user data or simply display information. We want to choose _Email Opt-in_.
15. Click _Choose Template_.
16. Click _Newsletter Signup_.
17. Take a look at the options available to you. We're going to keep the defaults, except that we will change "product" to "events" in the _Main Content_.
18. Click the _Emails_ button at the bottom.
19. Research shows that asking for more information increases friction, decreasing conversions. So, we will only collect email addresses. Note, though, that you can collect additional information if appropriate for your use case.
20. When someone submits the form, you can either show a message or redirect them to a confirmation page. You can also automatically download a file, which is useful if you want to offer a free ebook or some other downloadable resource. Plus, you can send a confirmation email if you want.
21. We're going to keep the defaults and click _Integrations_.
22. Note that _Local List_ is automatically selected, so you will collect the email addresses in the WordPress database. I'm going to also add _Mailchimp_. I can choose which account if I have more than one. Then it prompts me for the list within _Mailchimp_ that I want to subscribe the person to. I only have one, so I'll leave the default. If I check _Automatically opt-in new users to the mailing list,_ the user won't be required to confirm the subscription. If I leave the box unchecked, _Mailchimp_ will send an email asking the user to opt-in. Keep in mind that _Mailchimp_ and other email marketing services provide you with the ability to craft opt-in emails and confirmation emails that are sent when someone subscribes and that is all handled and controlled outside of _Hustle_. I click _Continue_ and it asks me for _Mailchimp Tags_. They allow me to do segmentation within _Mailchimp_. I haven't set any up yet, but this is where I might indicate that, based on the offer, this person might be at a specific point in the buyer's journey, or might be interested in a certain topic/product.
23. There we go - email addresses will now be automatically subscribed to the _Mailchimp_ list.
24. Click _Appearance_ and note that you can adjust how the slide-in looks on desktop and mobile.
25. Click _Visitibility_ and note that you have very fine-grained control over what visitors might see this. For example, we could add conditions to only show this slide-in on specific posts and/or only to people visiting from the US, so you can build multiple offers that target different demographics. For this offer, we won't add any conditions.
26. Click _Behavior_.
27. Here you can control when and how the slide-in appears. You can even specify a schedule to show the slide-in during a certain time period or only on certain days of the week. On the list of triggers, let's turn off _Time_ and instead turn on _Scroll_ and _Exit Intent_. For each of these, you can expand them to adjust the parameters, but we'll stick with the defaults.
28. Also, let's no longer show this across the site after someone opts in.
29. Click _Publish_.
30. Now let's go to the home page and scroll down approximately 20% of the page to see the slide-in.
31. Test it out by entering your email address and seeing if it works!
32. Now return to the _Admin area_ and click _Hustle_. Note the stats on the _Dashboard_. You can also see stats for each offer if you scroll down.
33. Click _Email Lists_ on the _Admin bar_ under _Hustle_ to find the addresses collected.

One final note: if you set up an _Embed_, you can control exactly where it appears on a page or post by using a _shortcode_. Each _Embed_ automatically has a shortcode, which you can copy by clicking the cog icon on the list of _Embeds_. You will then paste it into a _shortcode_ block in your page.
