---
layout: default
title: "1.4 SSH and SFTP Software Suggestions"
---

# 1.4 SSH and SFTP Software Suggestions

Over the course of the semester, you will be using an SSH client and an SFTP client. By now in your academic career, I expect that you already have one of each of these that you like. In that case, please use them! I do not require that you use a specific tool for SSH or SFTP.

You are welcome to stop the video here if you already know what you are going to use.

Having said that, if you do not know what to use for an SFTP client or SSH client, here are some suggestions.

## SSH Clients

SSH stands for Secure Shell. For our purposes, it is used to perform commands on a remote device over an encrypted connection.

On macOS and Linux, the ssh command from OpenSSH is generally pre-installed. It is the premier SSH client and is free and open source. I highly recommend using it because it's ready to use! I'll explain how to use it in another video.

On Windows, PuTTY is a good, free, open source SSH client. You can download it from <https://www.putty.org/>. I'll explain how to use it in another video.

## SFTP Clients

SFTP stands for Secure File Transfer Protocol. It's actually an extension of SSH designed for transferring and managing files.

On Windows, macOS, and Linux, I recommend FileZilla, a free, open source SFTP client. You can download it from <https://filezilla-project.org/>. I'll explain how to use it in another video.

Alternatives include WinSCP for Windows from <https://winscp.net/> or an SFTP client built into your favorite code editor, such as Notepad++, Visual Studio Code, or something else. Again, use what you are comfortable with.

## What You Will See Me Use

With the exception of the videos where I explain how to use the OpenSSH ssh client on macOS, PuTTY on Windows, and FileZilla, I will be using a tool called [Termius](https://termius.com/education) anytime I use SSH or SFTP in a video. I'm doing this because it's the tool I like and I trust that at this point you will find or have found a tool that you like and these tools operate similarly enough that you need to get comfortable translating between your preferred tool and other tools.

Termius is a cross-platform commercial SSH client with basic support for SFTP and several time-saving features. The reason that I mention it is that it is available for free for students, along with many other tools, through the GitHub Student Developer Pack. You can learn more by visiting <https://termius.com/education>.

Now, I want to stress that I am not suggesting that you spend money on it, but since it is available for free, you may want to check it out.
