---
layout: default
title: "13.1 Finishing and Testing, Part 1"
published: false
---

# 13.1 Finishing and Testing, Part 1

As you near the end of a Web site project, it is important that you take a step back and review what you have built, test it throroughly, and make a list of things that need finishing or fixing. This phase is commonly referred to as quality assurance. If you are building a Web site for a client, it is important that you get your client involved in testing once you have done your own review. This is often called _User Acceptance Testing_ (abbreviatged _UAT_) and ensures that the client is comfortable with what you have built and provides certification that you have met their specifications prior to the launch of the site. Depending on the size of the project, you or your client might also employ people whose job it is to test the site from a user's perspective. It is important that you as the developer not provide 100% of the testing because you have been intimately involved in the project and also because you see the project as a developer, not as an end user. Similarly, if you have been working with a single representative of your client throughout the project, that person should not be performing all of their own testing because they have been involved in the decisions and therefore may miss situations where usability should be improved. Our discussion topic for this week involves _User Acceptance Testing_, so I'm not going to go into too much detail regarding that here. I will note, though, that the idea of creating scenarios for testing is essential as it helps guide those who are performing the UAT and ensures that they cover the bases. I'll also note that you should expect those performing UAT to do things that weren't part of your scenarios as well, though. If you just want someone to follow a script, use a bot to do that - you are having a human test the site because it will be used by humans, so you need someone who thinks like a human and does human things to do your testing! A colleague recently shared with me that she has a friend that she hires to perform her testing. Why? Because her friend breaks _everything!_ Yes, it can be frustrating when someone comes to you saying that a form doesn't work because they couldn't put their email address in the phone number field, but if that happens, you most likely have a usability issue creating confusion. Don't dismiss it as user error - ask yourself how to make the form clearer.

Let's open up the _Geekaway Storyboard_ so that we have it handy and then open up the Web site. 

1. We'll scroll through the home page to start, testing links as we go. We'll skip the main navigation for now, but we'll be spending a lot of time there shortly.
2. The _Book Now!_ link takes us to the contact form.
3. The latest blog post link takes us to that post and the _Read All The Latest News_ link takes us to the main _Blog_ page.
4. The _Geekaway Difference_ text looks good, but the _More Details_ button doesn't go anywhere. Should it go somewhere or should it be removed? Not sure, let's add it to the list.
5. The _Geek Family Fun Day_ block looks good, but the _Register Today_ link doesn't go anywhere. That should point to the RSVP form for the event. Add it to the list.
6. Next we have four blocks that contain sample info from the theme. We'll delete the first three and then we'll place a subscription form for our weekly newsletter into the last one, which actually lives in our footer so it appears on every page of our site. Add it to the list!
7. At the bottom of the page, we see "Geekaway" and "For Every Event." That's not our tagline... Actually, we don't need the tagline there. Perhaps the name of the town where we are located with a link to our _Location_ page would be better? Let's add it to the list.
8. Also, although the privacy policy is linked from the newsletter subscription box, we don't have a link to the privacy policy on its own in the footer. We'll add that to the list as well. Speaking of privacy policy, the link in the newsletter subscription box doesn't go anywhere, so if we keep that we need to fix it as well.

Well, we have a good list for the home page. Let's make these changes and then move on.

1. Click _Edit Site_ in the _Admin bar_.
2. Click the front page to switch to the _Full Site Editor_.
3. Remove the _More Details_ button - it's not needed.
4. Delete the blocks containing the event schedule, sponsors, and speakers. Note that after deleting a block, the previous block is selected, so be sure that click the subsequent box before deleting it.
5. Change _Stay informed about news & announcement on the Designer Conference 2024!_ to _Never Miss Our Latest Events And Offers! Subscribe to Our Weekly Newsletter Today!_
6. Remove _Join our mailing list to stay in the loop and get every news about WordCamp Nepal 2024_ and the _Subscribe Now_ button and insert a _Shortcode_ block in their place.
7. Open the _Admin area_ in a separate tab and create a _Hustle_ embed called _Weekly Newsletter_.
8. Leave the _Content_ tab blank.
9. On the _Emails_ tab, remove the name fields so that only an _Email Address_ is being collected.
10. For the _Submission Behavior Success Message_, type _Thank you for joining our weekly newsletter!_
11. On the _Appearance_ tab, enable the _Vanilla theme_.
12. On the _Display Options_ tab, copy the _Shortcode_.
13. Click _Publish_.
14. Return to the _Full Site Editor_ tab for the front page and paste the copied shortcode into the _Shortcode_ block.
15. Link the _Privacy Policy_ link to the actual _Privacy Policy_ page.
16. Replace _For Every Event_ with _Sandy River Plantation, Maine_ and make that a link to the _Location_ page.
17. Add a new navigation menu to the _Navigation_ block and add a page link to the _Privacy Policy_ page.
18. Save your changes.
19. Click on the _Geek Family Fun Day_ promo and click _Edit Original_.
20. In the separate _Admin area_ tab where you were working in _Hustle_, use the _Admin menu_ to add a new event.
21. Set the title to _Geek Family Fun Day_, add an appropriate description, and set the date and time to June 26, 8AM to 7PM.
22. Set the price to _0_.
23. Add an RSVP called _Free Ticket_.
24. Publish the event and then return to the _Full Site Editor_.
25. Make the _Register Today_ button a link to the event that you just created.

Let's review our changes and make sure that everything looks good. Return to the home page and scroll through, testing all of the links that you created as well as the email subscription form.

In the next tutorial, we'll finish up our testing.
