---
layout: default
title: "13.2 Finishing and Testing, Part 2"
published: false
---

# 13.2 Finishing and Testing, Part 2

Continuing where we left off, let's scroll back up to the top of the page. Notice if we hover over _Activities_ we see our two categories of activities? Well, we want people to click one of the categories, not the main link, but there's no reason that people can't click the main link. We could solve this by using _Javascript_ to prevent the link from taking people anywhere, or by removing the URL from the main link altogether; however, search engines prefer that if we have a hierarchy implied by our URL structure, we should have a page at each level of the hierarchy. In this case, because we have _tutorial/activities/geeky/_ we should also have a valid, usable page at _tutorial/activities/_. So, let's do that.

1. Click _Activities_.
2. Click _Edit Page_ on the _Admin bar_.
3. Add 50/50 columns.
4. In the first column, add a _Cover_ block for _Geeky Activities_, use an appropriate image, and link it to the _Geeky Activities_ page.
5. In the second column, add a _Cover_ block for _Normie Activities_, use an appropriate image, and link it to the _Normie Activities_ page.
6. Set a _Featured Image_ for the page as well.
7. Click _Update_.

Return to the site and test our the new page and then proceed to test the two subpages. Of course, if this was a real site there is more that we would need to do here, but rather than waste our time repeating the same steps over and over again, we are going to move on. As you proceed through the remaining pages, you will see that there are other pages that need featured images set. Again, I won't make you do that, but it's definitely something you would want to fix if this were a real site.

The _Events_ page has a lot of functionality. In a real site, you would want to carefully test all of that functionality, including things like subscribing to feeds and buying tickets. Of course, you've already done that, so why do it again now? As you build a site, you sometimes install plugins that interact (perhaps unintentionally) with other plugins and once you get everything set up, you want to make sure that nothing you added after you tested something messed it up. For example, what if the shopping cart plugin messed up the events plugin? The _Events_ page might mostly work but maybe it doesn't accept RSVP's. You'll only know if you test again.

The _Blog_ page has a search form. Nowhere else on your site is there a search tool and if you test it you'll notice that the search tool searches all pages, not just blog posts. Search tools are very useful. You can add a _Search_ block to a navigation bar or anywhere else on your site. Let's add a _Search_ block to our site's footer:

1. In the _Admin area_, click _Appearance > Editor_.
2. Click _Patterns_.
3. Click _Footer_.
4. Click to edit the footer.
5. Click the _Add block_ (plus) button in the footer navigation bar and click _Search_.
6. Click in the search box and type _Search site_ to display that as a placeholder.
7. Click _Save_.
8. Return to the site.

Let's try searching for _weekend_. Type your search term(s) into the box in teh footer and press Enter or click the search button. This theme's search results page shows three items per row with the featured image, post/page publication date, title, excerpt, and a _Know More_ link to go to the post/page. At the top is a _Search_ block inside a _Cover_ block. Let's add a background photo to the _Cover_ block and let's also see about adjusting the date that appears on the results. Click _Edit Site_ in the _Admin bar_ to be taken to the _FSE_ with the theme's _search_ template opened. Any theme can provide a template for search results by simply including a template file called _search.html_ for _FSE_ themes or _search.php_ for classic themes.

1. Click the _Cover_ block.
2. Click _Add Media_ and use _Instant Images_ to find something that looks good for this page.
3. If needed, adjust the _Focal Point_ of the _Cover_ photo.
4. Click a date in the search results.
5. In the _Settings_ pane, note the options available. Currently, this displays the publication date. Since pages are included in the results, we would be better to use the last modification date since a page might have up-to-date information due to being modified recently but have been published years ago. Click the appropriate toggle.
6. Click _Save_.

Return to the search results and search for _test_. You should see more than one result and will now see the _Cover_ background photo and the last modification dates.
