---
layout: default
title: "13.3 Responsive Design"
published: true
---

# 13.3 Responsive Design

According to the [Mozilla Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Responsive_Design):

> Responsive web design, or RWD, is a design approach that addresses the range of devices and device sizes,
> enabling automatic adaption to the screen, whether the content is viewed on a tablet, phone, television,
> or watch. Responsive web design isn't a separate technology — it is an approach.

Our theme is fully responsive, but it's possible that as we have built our site we may have introduced elements that don't look right at certain screen or window sizes. I imagine that at this point in your education you are probably already aware of how to test your site at various screen/window sizes, but let's briefly walk through one way to complete that process and then explore how make adjustments.

1. In Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Microsoft Edge, press Ctrl-Shift-I to open Web Developer Tools and then press Ctrl-Shift-M to toggle Device Emulation.
2. Use the device selector to choose a device type.
3. Test your site as you tested the desktop version, checking to ensure that elements appear where you expect them and that they work properly for each set of dimenions. You should test at a variety of sizes and use the _Rotate_ button to test both landscape and portrait.
4. In browsers that offer a _Responsive_ option for the device selector, you are shown various common breakpoints and can switch easily between them.
5. You should always test how the site looks when not logged in.
6. If you expect that some people will use your site when logged into _WordPress_, such as our forum users, you should also test when logged in since the _Admin bar_ might cause odd behavior in some cases.

As you explore the site, notice that certain elements change at various dimensions. For example, the _Group_ blocks that we used on the activity pages stretch across the viewport when the screen is 768px or narrower. That's what we want.

Also, notice that the _Book Now_ button on the primary navigation bar starts looking odd at the 1200px mark. Actually, the whole navigation bar quickly becomes problematic as we get smaller from there. To correct issues like this, we can apply CSS using media queries under _Additional CSS_ in the _Customizer_ tool. In the _Admin area_, go to _Appearance > Customize_. Click _Additional CSS_. Paste the following at the bottom of the box:

```css
/* copy of wp default css to a 1200px media query */
@media (min-width: 1200px) {
    .wp-block-navigation__responsive-container-open:not(.always-shown) {
        display: none !important;
    }

    .wp-block-navigation__responsive-container:not(.hidden-by-default):not(.is-menu-open) {
        display: block !important;
        width: 100%;
        position: relative;
        z-index: auto;
        background-color: inherit;
    }
}

/* neutralize the wp default for 600px */
@media (min-width: 600px) {
    .wp-block-navigation__responsive-container-open:not(.always-shown) {
        display: flex;
    }
    .wp-block-navigation__responsive-container:not(.hidden-by-default):not(.is-menu-open) {
        display: none;
    }
}
```

Then click _Publish_ and check out the result!

Now the menu bar minimizes below 1200px instead of waiting to do so at 600px. By the way, I borrowed the CSS for this solution from [a post on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74956603/wordpress-navigation-block-how-to-change-mobile-breaking-point).

If you check out the _Accommodations_ page, you'll notice that the second image gallery doesn't look right below around 1100px. The plugin provides a responsive gallery, but our CSS solution for creating square thumbnails doesn't work at smaller dimensions. Let's move the CSS for the square thumbnails inside the media query with a min-width of 1200px, which will solve the issue.
