---
layout: default
title: "13.5 WordPress Multisite"
published: true
---

# 13.5 WordPress Multisite

As I mentioned a few weeks ago, WordPress has a feature called _Multisite_ that allow you to set up a network of WordPress sites that use a single installation of WordPress with a single set of available themes and plugins, although each individual site can choose which of the available themes and plugins to enable. It's almost like building your own WordPress.com!

This is not a trivial thing to do, but since _Local_ offers a way for us to play with the functionality on our own machines, I thought it was worth spending a few minutes exploring.

The WordPress Developer Resources includes a helpful article on [creating your own multisite network](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/multisite/create-network/) and also one regarding the [requirements for networks](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/multisite/prepare-network/) and I encourage you to check both of those out.

Let's explore how this works using _Local_:

1. Open Local and click the _Add Local Site_ button.
2. Choose _Create a new site_ and click _Continue_.
3. Provide a name, such as _My Network_ and click _Continue_.
4. Choose _Preferred_ and click _Continue_.
5. Provide a username and password and click _Advanced Options_.
6. There are two ways of setting up a network - using subdomains (such as site1.mydomain.com and site2.mydomain.com) or subdirectories (such as mydomain.com/site1 and mydomain.com/site2). Choose _Yes - Subdirectory_.
7. Click _Add Site_.
8. Once the site has been set up, click _WP Admin_.
9. Sign in with the username and password that you created.
10. You are on your personal dashboard for managing your main site on your network. Since you are the network administrator, you can go to _My Sites > Network Admin > Sites_ and add additional sites.
11. Let's add one with a URL of _tutorial_, site title of _Tutorial Site_, and admin email of your @maine.edu address.
12. You can see that the site has been created. If you now go to _Sites > All Sites_ on the _Admin menu_, you can edit the site and manage users (notice that one user has been created), enable themes just for this site that aren't enabled for other sites, and adjust settings. You can see that this is getting more complicated!
13. Click _Themes_ on the _Admin menu_. Here you can _Network Enable_ themes so that everyone on the network can access the theme. You can also add new themes. If you don't network enable a theme, you can enable that theme for a single site back on the _Edit Site_ screen.
14. Click _Plugins_ on the _Admin menu_. Here you can install new plugins to make them available to your users. If you _Network Activate_ a plugin, it is turned on for all sites and cannot be turned off for a single site. However, settings can still be adjusted per site.
15. Click _Settings_. Here you can control user registrations and site creation along with various other settings.

There's so much more that we could explore here, but I just wanted to give you a brief look at the options available. Now that you have it installed on your local machine, I encourage you to explore more on your own!
