# 7.1 Blogs and Blog Posts

We've discussed that WordPress began its life as a blogging platform rather than a full-blown Web content management system, so it shouldn't be surprising that WordPress has extensive functionality around blogging. In a video a few weeks ago I mentioned that, internally, posts and pages are stored the same, but they are actually treated quite differently. The interfaces used to create and edit them are similar, but the functionality is very different.

A post is dynamic, meaning that it can be used and shown in many different ways, such as on a blog page, shared on social media, summarized in an e-newsletter, featured on pages of your site, etc. A page is static, meaning that once you publish it, the page stays in one spot until you move it.

Let's explore how to add a blog post and from there we can further explore the differences and similarities.

1. Log into the _Admin area_.
2. Go to _Posts > Add New Post_.
3. As you can see, posts and pages both use the _WordPress block editor_, so this should be very familiar. Add a title of _Opening weekend prepations!_ and press Enter.
4. Copy and paste the blog post content provided in Brightspace. As we saw when adding page content, pasting multiple paragraphs into the block editor works seamlessly and we can always add blocks within the body of the post and move things around.
5. Take a look at the blocks, patterns, and media available to add to the post - all of the familiar stuff should be here.
6. Take a look at the _Post_ tab in the _Settings_ pane. In the _Summary_ section, most of this should be familiar. A few things that I'd like to highlight:

- It is very common to pre-publish blog posts and have them appear at the listed date and time. It is best practice to come up with a blog posting schedule so that your readers know when to expect new content. In order to meet that schedule, bloggers frequently pre-publish posts so that they have a few ready in advance in case something unexpected gets in the way of writing.
- The _Template_ is what is used when the post is viewed by itself and the _URL_ points to that view. Posts appear, either in summary or in whole, at various URLs as we will see in other tutorials this week, but the blog's permalink is its primary home.
- The _Stick to the top of the blog_ checkbox allows you to highlight this post by placing it above all other posts in archive pages and on the main blog page. Posts are always displayed in reverse chronological order, meaning that the most recent post appears first. Any post with this checked will appear above the ones that don't have this checked, but if more than one has this checked those will still appear in reverse chronological order above all of the others.
- Setting a _Featured Image_ is especially important for blog posts because of how blog posts are used. In our theme, as in many, the featured image appears next to the post _Excerpt_ to draw people's attention. It is also included by default in social media posts linking to the blog post.
- Speaking of _Excerpts_, I encourage you to write your own! Otherwise, WordPress just takes the first 55 words from the post to use in places where an _Excerpt_ is expected.
- _Allow Comments_ is the default and does what it says.
- _Allow pingbacks and trackbacks_ might be less familiar. I've included a link in the resources for this tutorial that discusses [what trackbacks and pingbacks are and why you may or may not want to enable them](https://www.greengeeks.com/tutorials/what-are-trackbacks-and-pingbacks-in-wordpress/). It's possible to change the default behavior for comments, pingbacks, and trackbacks by going to _Settings > Discussions_ on the _Admin menu_.
- By the way, I've skipped over tags and categories because we have an entire tutorial video about those.

Go ahead and click _Publish_, review the suggestions, and then _Publish_ again. Then let's take a look at how the blog post appears when you go to its permalink by clicking _View Post_.

This is a theme template called _Single Posts_, which is the default template used for single post pages. It displays the title at the top, the publication date and author as well as assigned categories, and includes a sidebar with a search box, links to various archives and recent posts, and social media links. It also includes a comment box at the bottom.

1. Let's check out this template and maybe make a few tweaks. We can edit the template by clicking _Edit site_ on the _Admin bar_.
2. Click _Edit_.
3. Notice that there are two blocks that display the post title. Also notice that there is a block that displays the featured image, but it is below the wide image. Let's make some changes. First, delete the _Title_ block that appears below the post date.
4. Next, delete the _Featured Image_ block.
5. We're going to display the featured image behind the post title, the same way we display the featured image on pages. Click the _Cover_ block at the top and use the _Replace_ button to display the featured image there, just like we did with the page template.
6. Next, there is a _Template Part_ called _Post Meta_ that displays the post date, author, and categories. Notice that you can easily edit that by clicking _Edit_ on the popover. Often, especially on small sites, people tend to hide the author on blog posts. The idea is that the post is from the organization and doesn't need an author listed. Other times, site owners want to bring attention to the people who are writing for them. As part of our client's branding efforts, she wants to feature many employees writing blog posts about their areas of interest, so she would like to keep the author name showing and will have each of her employees provide photos and bios and make use of WordPress's author pages. There's a better way of displaying that information than the _Post Meta_ part. Below the content, add a _Group_ block and give it a simple black border with padding all the way around of 1.
7. Inside that, add an _Author_ block.
8. Make sure that _Show avatar_, _Show bio_, and _Link author name to author page_ are all selected.
9. The client wants to put the post date by itself right-aligned above the content. While we could modify the _Post Meta_ part, let's leave it as-is since it might be used by other templates. Remove the _Post Meta_ and replace it with a _Date_ block, which displays the post date. Then set the alignment on the _Date_ block to _Align Right_.
10. Notice that the categories and tags appear above the comments, so no information has been lost by removing the _Post Meta_.
11. WordPress provides a preview of the _Comments_ block along with a message that we are using a legacy version. Click the button to switch to the _Editable_ version.
12. Finally, save the template.

Let's go back to our post's permalink and see how this looks!

I guess we need to provide a featured image! We also need to fill out our author information. At this point, we stress to the client that if an employee makes a post and doesn't provide their own photo and bio or doesn't include a featured image, visitors will not be impressed!

Let's edit the post and provide a featured image. We know how to do this.

Next, look at the far right of the _Admin bar_ and see _Howdy,_ followed by your username. Hover over that and click _Edit Profile_. Scroll through the options available. Many of these control how you use WordPress, but the _Name_, _Contact Info_, and _About Yourself_ sections impact how you are displayed on the site. Add your first and last name if they are not already there. Then open the _Display name publicly as_ dropdown and choose the first and last name option. Supply _Biographical Info_ and notice that the profile picture is provided via Gravatar. Click _Update Profile_ and then go back to the blog post permalink to see how the Author block has changed.

Click your author name to see your author page. WordPress uses a hierarchical approach to determine which template is used to display the author page. The Kaaryam theme doesn't include an author page template, so we're stuck with a default archive page, which only shows the author's name. In the next tutorial, we will fix this!

Special thanks to the [Pages vs. Posts](https://learn.wordpress.org/lesson-plan/pages-versus-posts/) lesson plan from [Learn WordPress](https://learn.wordpress.org/).
