---
layout: default
title: "7.2 Add An Author Page Template"
---

# 7.2 Add An Author Page Template

Although this is slightly off topic for this week, let's look at how to add a template to WordPress so that we can create a custom author page template.

1. If you have left it, return to the author page for your account by clicking your name in the _Author_ block on the blog post that we published in the last tutorial.
2. Click _Edit site_ on the _Admin bar_.
3. We see the _All Archives_ template, which confirms that there is not a specific template for author pages. Click the button to go to the _Templates_ list and then click _Add New Template_.
4. Click _Author Archives_ as the template type.
5. Click _All Authors_ to create a generic template that applies to all of our post authors.
6. Click the only pattern available.
7. The pattern that we selected gave us the full _All Archives_ template to use as our starting point, which is perfect. Let's add the author's information to the _Cover_ block. Select the group that contains the _Archive Title_ block, which reads _Author Name_.
8. Below the _Archive Name_ block, add a _Row_ block.
9. Add a _User Avatar_ block to the _Row_ block.
10. Add a _Stack_ block to the _Row_ block, after the _User Avatar_.
11. Add an _Archive Name_ block to the _Stack_ block.
12. Turn off the option to show the archive type in the archive name.
13. Add an _Author Biography_ block inside the _Stack_ block below the _Archive Name_ block.
14. Remove the original _Archive Name_ block.
15. Save the template and refresh the author page.

This is much better, but let's replace the background photo in the _Cover_ block. Using _Instant Images_, find a photo that looks like a resort and use that in place of the conference photo.
