---
marp: true
theme: gaia
_class: lead
paginate: true
backgroundColor: #fff
backgroundImage: url('https://marp.app/assets/hero-background.jpg')
---

# **CIS 338**

Tags and Categories

---

# Taxonomy

- A mechanism for grouping items by their characteristics through the use of terms.
- By default, posts are arranged in chronological order reflecting their timely nature.
- Posts can also be organized using categories and tags as a means of taxonomy.
- Pages cannot use categories and tags; instead, they are organized in parent-child hierarchies.

---

# Categories

- A way to sort and group posts into different sections.
- Pre-defined and broad ranging.
- A descriptive word or phrase used as a text label for a group of posts.
- Subcategories allow for creating a hierarchy of category terms.
- WordPress considers posts in subcategories to also be members of their parent categories.

---

# Note About Categories

- A post may have more than one category applied, but it’s best to restrict posts to a single category.
- Multiple categories for single posts tends to clutter the organization of content and may confuse readers.
- Tags are a better means of providing additional groupings and relationships between posts.

---

# Tags

- Used in a more free-form manner for applying all kinds of keywords to posts.
- Posts tend to have multiple tags for cross referencing, and they can be used in an ad hoc way without causing confusion. 
- Unlike categories, tags do not have any hierarchy.
