# 7.3 Tags and Categories

WordPress has built-in taxonomies for managing content. A taxonomy is a mechanism for grouping items by their characteristics through the use of terms. By default, posts are arranged in chronological order reflecting their timely nature. Posts can also be organized using categories and tags as a means of taxonomy. Pages cannot use categories and tags; instead, they are organized in parent-child hierarchies.

Categories offer a way to sort and group posts into different sections. They tend to be pre-defined and broad ranging. A category is a descriptive word or phrase used as a text label for a group of posts. Categories may have subcategories, which allows for creating a hierarchy of category terms. WordPress considers posts in subcategories to also be members of their parent categories, so subcategories are more specific terms within a parent category.

A post may have more than one category applied, but it’s best to restrict posts to a single category. Multiple categories for single posts tends to clutter the organization of content and may confuse readers. Tags are a better means of providing additional groupings and relationships between posts.

Tags are similar to categories, but they are used in a more free-form manner for applying all kinds of keywords to posts. Posts tend to have multiple tags for cross referencing, and they can be used in an ad hoc way without causing confusion. Unlike categories, tags do not have any hierarchy.

## Using Categories

1. Click _Posts_ on the _Admin menu_
2. Click “Hello world!” to edit the post.
3. In the _Settings_ pane, scroll down to the “Categories” meta box and expand it, if needed.
4. By default all posts are placed in “Uncategorized”, but that is not a useful classification. Click _Add New Category_ and type “Announcements” into the _New Category Name_ box.
5. Leave the _Parent Category_ box empty.
6. Click the _Add New Category_ button.
7. Uncheck “Uncategorized” and ensure that “Announcements” is checked.
8. Click _Update_ to save the post.
9. Click the _View Post_ button and take a look at where the new category appears on the sidebar and below the post body.
10. Click one of the links to the new category to see the category archive page, which shows the category name at the top and the title, author, publication date, and excerpt for each post in the category.
11. Return to the _Admin area_ and click _Posts_ again.
12. Notice the _Categories_ column, which displays all categories that each post is in. You can click a category name in this column to filter the list of posts to that category. There's also a category filter at the top of the page.
13. Click on _Quick Edit_ for the “Hello world!” post to edit the meta data for the post. Note that you can change the assigned categories here.

## Managing Categories

Hover over _Posts_ on the _Admin menu_ and click _Categories_. From here, you can modify and delete existing categories as well as add new categories. There are five properties for categories that you see on the “Categories” page:

- Name: The category name as it appears on the front end of the website
- Slug: The URL-friendly version of the category name usually composed of lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens
- Parent: A category may optionally have a parent category, so that it is a child of the parent in a hierarchy
- Description: Optional short descriptive phrase or sentence to describe the type of content in the category
- Count: The number of posts in that category

The _Screen Options_ button at the top of the page allows you to change which of these properties appear in the list. When you first open this page, all top-level categories appear in alphabetical order with child categories nested below their parents.

Let's add a category:

1. Type “Competition Results” in the _Name_ field.
2. The _Slug_ field can be automatically generated based on the name and the _Description_ is optional, so leave those both blank.
3. Leave the _Parent Category_ as “None”.
4. Click _Add New Category_.
5. Geekaway is going to hold weekly _Super Mario Kart_ competitions and wants to provide summaries of each event on their blog. Type “Super Mario Kart Family Fun Night” in the _Name_ field.
6. Select “Competition Results” as the _Parent Category_.
7. In the _Description_ field, type: We hope you'll join us for our weekly Super Mario Kart Family Fun Nights! Here's a look at what has happened at our recent events.
8. Click _Add New Category_.
9. Note how the new category appears below “Competition Results”. Click _View_ under the new category to open the category archive page.
10. Note the URL. All category archives by default appear under /category/ and the slug for child categories appear after the parent category's slug. Note that in our theme the description doesn't appear by default. Also note that, just like post slugs, spaces and special characters get replaced by hyphens in the slug.
11. Return to edit the “Hello world!” post and notice how the new categories appear on the _Edit Post_ page. Remember that posts in a subcategory also appear under the category by default. Therefore, you don't need to assign both a parent and child category to a post - select the appropriate child(ren) and the post will also show under the parent.

## Using Tags

Tags are managed in a similar manner to categories, except that tags do not have a parent property, so they cannot be organized in a hierarchy. Remember that posts can and should have multiple tags, as applicable, and they are more specific than categories.

1. Click _Posts_ on the _Admin menu_
2. Click “Hello world!” to edit the post.
3. In the _Settings_ pane, scroll down to the “Tags” meta box and expand it, if needed. Note that, unlike categories, there are no tags shown by default and there is also no tag selected by default.
4. Type “welcome” into the _Add New Tag_ box and press Enter or type a comma. The tag will appear with an X after it so that you could easily remove it.
5. Type “thoughts” into the same box and press Enter. Although you can't tell right now because there are no other tags, as you type a tag, WordPress performs an autolookup to suggest existing tags that you match what you are typing.
6. Save the post and then view it. Note that in our theme, the tags appear below the post, right-aligned, in a comma-separated list. Each keyword is a clickable link that takes you to the tag archive where you can see other posts with the same tag.
7. Take a look at the sidebar. There is a list of tags with clickable links to the tag archives there as well. There's also a typo in the sidebar and it's unclear if this lists all tags or just some of them. We'll fix the typo and figure that out shortly.
8. Return to the _All Posts_ page and notice how the tags are displayed in the list. Like with the categories, the tags are links that will filter the list.
9. Click _Quick Edit_ for the “Hello world!” post and take note that you can update the tags on _Quick Edit_. The autolookup works here, but note that if you press Enter in _Quick Edit_ it saves rather than allowing you to add another tag. Also, if you want to remove a tag from a post in _Quick Edit_, simply backspace or delete the text - there are no X buttons to remove tags.

_Important:_ While it’s easy to quickly apply existing tags along with new tags to a post, be careful when typing tag names in the comma delimited list. It’s easy for typos or variations of existing tag names to be created. You may decide to use tag variations like “kitten” and “kitty” to increase findability for your posts, but creating too many tags and over-tagging posts can decrease the usability of the tags on your website.

## Managing Tags

On top of creating tags on the fly, they can also be created and managed on the _Tags_ page. Go to _Posts > Tags_ in the _Admin area_ to access the _Tags_ page. You’ll see that it has the same layout as the _Categories_ page.

You create tags on the _Tags_ page in the same way as for categories. Descriptions are optional for tags, and themes may or may not display the description as a subtitle for the tag archive.

## Converting Between Tags and Categories

Categories and tags are not interchangeable, and while you could use the same name for a category as for a tag in the a website, that could be confusing. So, what can you do if you decide that a category should be a tag or that a tag would be better as a category? WordPress has an importer that allows you to selectively convert one to the other. You will find the converter under _Tools > Import_ on the _Admin menu_.

## Archive Templates

Like author archives, tag and category archives by default use the _All Archives_ template but can also be customized using a _Tag Archives_ template or _Category Archives_ template, respectively. Some themes define these, but Kaaryam doesn't. Of course, you can add your own like you did with the _Author Archives_ template. You can even add an archive template for a specific tag or category. We won't go into that process since it's so similar to the _Author Archives_ template that we've already covered.

We will fix the sidebar, though.

1. On the _Admin menu_ go to _Appearance > Editor_.
2. The _Sidebar_ is a _Template Part_. Remember that those appear under _Patterns_, so click _Patterns_.
3. Scroll down to _Tempalte Parts_ and click _General_.
4. Click _Sidebar_.
5. Click _Edit_.
6. Remove "Catogery" from before "Tags".
7. Click the tags that appear under the "Tags" heading. Notice that this is a block called a _Tag Cloud_.
8. In the _Settings_ pane, you can select which taxonomy this is based on, turn post counts on or off, choose the number of tags that appear in the cloud, and specify the font size for the smallest and largest tags. So, we know that the top 45 tags will appear here with font sizes based on the number of posts. Let's turn on post counts and then click _Save_.

Special thanks to the [Categories vs. Tags](https://learn.wordpress.org/lesson-plan/categories-versus-tags/) lesson plan from [Learn WordPress](https://learn.wordpress.org/) as well as the [WordPress.com Support Document on Categories vs. Tags](https://wordpress.com/support/posts/categories-vs-tags/) and [SolidWP's page on Using Categories and Tags](https://solidwp.com/tutorials/using-wordpress-categories-and-tags/).
