# 7.4 Comment Spam and Moderation

A comment is part of a discussion about your blog post or page that a visitor can leave to begin a conversation with you. Some people will choose to turn them off on their entire site and some people only allow them on blog posts. Without a place for people to comment, you might find that you miss out on a chance for a conversation with your visitors. If you decide to allow comments on your site, just remember to make choices about what language is allowed, how to handle bad behavior on your site, and how often you want to moderate your comments.

By default, comments are available for all posts on your site but are held in pending status so you can approve them. As we've discussed, comments are disabled by default on pages but can be enabled. As the manager of your site, you can decide whether you want comments to show on all pages and all posts or nowhere at all! You can also decide if you want to publish comments before they have been reviewed or have them kept as pending until they are approved.

## Comment Settings

Before we discuss moderating comments and handling spam, let's look at the settings available.

1. On the _Admin menu_, click _Settings > Discussion_.
2. We'll be going quickly through these, so please note that you can get more detailed information by clicking _Help_ at the top of the screen on the right-hand side.
3. The first section defines defaults that can be overridden on individual posts. The first option determines whether WordPress should attempt to send pingbacks and trackbacks for posts that you link to, the second determines whether WordPress should allow incoming pingbacks and trackbacks, and the third determines if comments are enabled on new posts.
4. The next section determines various settings regarding comments. By default, people can comment without creating an account but must provide a name and email, which WordPress will offer to store in a cookie so that people don't have to re-enter their information each time they comment. You can decide to stop accepting comments a specific number of days after a post is published, but this won't happen by default. WordPress will allow people to reply to other comments, up to 5 layers deep, by default. All comments will appear under each post by default, but this can be changed to display in blocks of comments. Also, by default, comments appear in chronological order, with the oldest first.
5. The next section allows you to indicate when you want to be emailed about new comments.
6. The next two sections determine which comments need to be moderated. By default, comments are held for moderation unless the comment author has written a comment that was approved in the past. They are also held for moderation if they contain 2 or more links or any of the terms entered in the first big textarea.
7. The next big textarea is for terms that will cause a comment to be immediately placed in the _Trash_ rather than be held for moderation.
8. The final section relates to comment author avatars, which are provided by the [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com/) service. You can select whether or not to display them at all, what the maximum rating is (note: users self-rate their avatars when uploading them to Gravatar), and what should appear if the comment author doesn't have a Gravatar at all or one that meets the rating requirement.

## Moderating Comments

Some people choose to be notified by email of new comments needing moderation and others choose to check for new comments periodically. Either way, you can moderate comments from the _Comments_ page or the _Dashboard_.

Let's take a look at the first way. Click _Comments_ on the _Admin menu_. This page lists all comments, pending or approved, with pending comments highlighted. There are four columns:

- The “Author” column includes links to the comment author’s website, their email address, and the IP address that the comment was posted from.
- In the “Comment” column, hovering over the comment itself will cause the following options to appear below it: Approve/Unapprove | Reply | Quick Edit | Edit | History | Spam | Trash.
- The “In Response To” column includes a link to the edit screen, the published post/page, and a comment counter that shows how many comments are already on that post/page.
- The “Submitted On” column lists the date and time stamp that indicate when the comment was posted.

In addition to the options that appear on hover, you will also find a _Bulk actions_ drop-down that can be used to perform certain actions on multiple comments at once. There are also filters at the top of the page that allow you to view only pending comments, check the spam queue, etc.

The second and quicker way to moderate comments is by going to the _Dashboard_ and looking at the _Activity_ widget. This widget includes all pending comments and other recent comments and provides many of the same actions that are available on the _Comments_ page.

## Dealing With Comment Spam

Once your Web site is live, it will become a sponge for comment spam. Comment spammers generally attempt to submit comments that include links in an effort to boost their search engine ranking by increasing the number of inbound links, thereby making it look like their site is trusted. There are many ways of protecting against this, although none is perfect. One common way is to require that commenters register for an account and confirm their email as part of that registration process, which is one of the options in the _Discussion Settings_ page that we looked at earlier. Of course, requiring that all comments be manually approved ensures that spam comments don't show up on your site, but it does that by creating a lot of work for you. Therefore, anything we can do to reduce the number of spam comments in the first place is a welcome improvement.

If you search for WordPress anti-spam plugins, you'll find hundreds of results. Some of them use CAPTCHA (Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart), which involves displaying or playing something for the end user and asking them to repeat it or solve a puzzle. Others use honeypots, in which a hidden form field is included in the comment form, but since it is hidden using CSS or Javascript, a human user won't see it; therefore, if the field is filled in, the commenter must be a bot. Some honeypot plugins use common words that might be mistaken as a legitimate field (such as "email") and others assume that most bots will fill some value into any field in the form, so the name can be totally random. Other plugins use lists of keywords, heuristic analysis, or cloud-based analysis.

Akismet is one of the more popular plugins and uses a variety of anti-spam methods, including cloud-based analysis and honeypots. It is a service provided by Automattic and is free for personal, non-commercial Web sites. It is also offered as a part of Jetpack, saving some money for sites that use multiple paid Jetpack services. According to the company, as of 2023, Akismet has protected more than 100 million websites and has blocked over 540 billion spam comments. This isn't an ad for Akismet. Akismet became so popular because Automattic provided it completely free for years and continues to include it in all new WordPress installations and to give it away for non-commercial use. It's a great service and is worth looking at for the sites that you build, but there are many other options and I encourage you to do your own testing and research to come up with a solution that works for you and your clients.

Although your present use of your portfolio and tutorial sites falls within Akismet's non-commercial use policy, I know that many of you intend to eventually use your portfolio site for an actual business, so I won't have you install Akismet. Instead, let's install _WP Armour_, a free honeypot-based antispam plugin. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ and search for _WP Armour_. Once you've found it, install and activate it. You'll find some settings on the _Admin menu_ under _WP Armour_, but there's nothing more for you to do - it's immediately protecting your comment forms, registration, and login forms using a randomly-generated honeypot field, as you can confirm by going to one of those forms and looking in the page source for a field labeled WPA.

Special thanks to the [Managing Comments](https://learn.wordpress.org/lesson-plan/managing-comments/) lesson plan from [Learn WordPress](https://learn.wordpress.org/).
