# 7.5 User Registration

As we discussed, one way to protect your site from comment spam is to require registration to comment. If we turn on that option, we will also want to enable registrations for our site; otherwise, we would only be allowing comments from people for whom we have created accounts.

Let's set this up.

1. On the _Admin bar_, go to _Settings > Discussion_, check _Users must be registered and logged in to comment_, and click _Save Changes_.
2. Next, go to _Settings > General_, check _Anyone can register_, and click _Save Changes_. Note that the default role is _Subscriber_, which is a role that has no administrative rights (check [WordPress Roles and Capabilities](https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/roles-and-capabilities/) for more information) and is what we want.
3. Remember that _WP Armour_ is already protecting your registration form using a honeypot. Additionally, as part of the registration process, new users must receive an email, which further protects your site. Let's add a new CAPTCHA plugin to further protect the registration form. We have the CAPTCHA from _BulletProof Security_ that is protecting the login form, but it isn't protecting the registration form. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_.
4. Search for "Captcha by BestWebSoft".
5. Install and activate the plugin. Make sure that you choose "Captcha by BestWebSoft" and not "reCaptcha by BestWebSoft" since the latter requires additional set-up!
6. Go to _Captcha > Settings_ on the _Admin menu_.
7. Check the boxes next to _Registration form_, _Reset password form_, and _Comments form_, but leave _Login form_ unchecked since that already has _JTC_ from _BPS_.
8. Choose _Arithmetic actions_ as the _Captcha Type_.
9. Click _Save Changes_.
10. Log out and try commenting to confirm that you are required to log in.
11. Check the login, registration, and password reset forms to see how they look and confirm that the CAPTCHA and honeypot are working properly. You should be able to log in, create an account, and reset your password as long as you type the CAPTCHA correctly and only if you do so. You should also be able to post a comment once you are registered and logged in. To create an account, either use a different email address or use "plus addressing" by placing a + sign followed by something (such as _wordpress_) between your username and the at sign in your email address. For example, I might use <nathaniel.laclaire+wordpress@maine.edu>.
