# 7.6 The Blog Index Page

Currently, we don't have a page that lists all blog posts. Such a page is called a _Blog Index_ or _Blog Home_. Let's build one.

Before we do that, though, a comment: you can easily add a _Query Loop_ to display blog posts on any page. The process we are going to follow will be to set up a _Blog Home_ template and associate it with a page, but while this is the recommended method, it's not the only one.

1. Go to _Pages > Add New Page_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Create a page called _Home_ and publish it.
3. Go to _Settings > Reading_ on the _Admin menu_.
4. Under _Your homepage displays_, choose _A static page_.
5. Select _Home_ as the _Homepage_ and _Blog_ as the _Posts page_.
6. Click _Save Changes_.
7. Go to _Pages > All Pages_ on the _Admin menu_.
8. The _Blog_ page now indicates that it is the _Posts Page_ and the _Home_ page now indicates that it is the _Front Page_. Click _View_ on the _Blog_ page.
9. The page should be pretty blank. Click _Edit site_ on the _Admin bar_.
10. Notice that the page will show 10 posts at a time. Click _Edit_.
11. Add a _Cover_ with people doing something fun and type _Blog_ in it.
12. Below that, add a group.
13. Inside the group, add _Columns_ set to 33/66.
14. In the left column, add the _Sidebar_.
15. In the right column, add a _Query Loop_. A _Query Loop_ block is used to display posts of a single type. Recall that I said that a page is a type of post? Well, if you take a look at the _Post Type_ drop-down, _Post_ and _Page_ are each options. So, even though posts and pages are different, they are each a type of post. Confusing, huh? Plugins and themes can add additional _Post Types_ as well, as we will see in a few weeks.
16. Choose the option for _Image on Left_.
17. Select the _Inherit query from template_ option. In WordPress, each URL has a query associated with it. The query for the _Blog Home_, by default, displays all blog posts with the newest first. The query for a single page includes just that page. The query for a category archive displays all of the posts for the category with the newest first. A month archive includes all posts written in that month. You get the point. So, we can use this option in this case to display all blog posts with the newest first because that is the default query for the _Blog Home_.
18. Save the template and then check out your new _Blog_ page!
19. That's good, but let's add a little padding around the content area. Click _Edit site_ and then _Edit_.
20. Select the _Group_ just above the _Columns_ block.
21. On the _Styles_ tab, increase the top/bottom padding to 2 and the left/right to the maximum.
22. Save the changes and check it out!
