# 7.7 Query Loop Blocks and Filters

As I mentioned in the last tutorial, a _Query Loop_ block can be added to any page. In fact, there is a _Query Loop_ block on the home page, which is currently labeled _News_. Let's see how this works.

1. If you aren't already there, navigate to the home page. During this tutorial, we'll need to be in the _Full Site Editor_ and in other parts of the _Admin area_, so let's open the _Full Site Editor_ in a second tab by Control-clicking on _Edit Site_.
2. Once the _Front Page_ loads in the _FSE_, click _Edit_.
3. Scroll down to the _News_ heading and click the post that appears. Use the _Select [parent]_ button to select the _Query Loop_.
4. Take a look at the _Block_ tab on the _Settings_ pane and scroll down to the _Settings_ heading. Note that the _Inherit query from template_ option is turned off. We're going to leave the _Post Type_ set as _Post_ and the _Order By_ set as _Newest to Oldest_.
5. The _Sticky Posts_ option allows you to include, exclude, or only show posts that have been marked as _Sticky_. Recall that a _Sticky Post_ appears before other blog posts in most archives and in the _Blog Home_.
6. Currently, the latest blog posts will be displayed on the home page. We're going to change this slightly. Given how frequently our client intends to post to their blog and the variety of things that they intend to blog about, they want to be a bit selective about what shows up on the home page. Click the _Filters options_ button (the plus sign next to _Filters_). Notice that you can filter to specific taxonomies, authors, or keywords. We're going to use a tag, so choose _Taxonomies_.
7. The tag that we want to use doesn't exist yet, though, so let's add it. Using the other tab, go to the _Admin area_ and click _Posts > Tags_.
8. Create a tag called _home_.
9. Return to the _FSE_ and start typing _home_ into the tags box and then click _home_ when it pops up.
10. You should see a message under the _News_ heading that there are no posts. That's good. Before we leave here, though, we have one more change to make. The link that reads _Read All The Latest News_ current goes nowhere. Let's fix that. Click the link and click the _Edit_ button.
11. You can either place a URL in the _Link_ box or type the name of a page. Our _Blog Home_ page is called _Blog_, so start typing _Blog_. When the page appears, click it.
12. Save the template and then return to the home page.
13. You should now see no posts under the _News_ heading on the home page.
14. Now go to the _Admin area_ and edit the post that we created, adding the _home_ tag to the post.
15. Return to the home page and you should now see the post under _News_.
