# 7.8 Permalinks and Taxonomies

Now that we know what taxonomies are in WordPress, let's chat about how taxonomies and permalinks in WordPress relate to each other.

In the _Admin area_, go to _Settings > Permalinks_. We set up our permalink structure to be based on only the post name. That makes for fairly short blog post URLs, which is great, but you might decide that a little more complexity provides for better context and perhaps better search engine optimization. Take a look at the things that you can include in a _Custom Structure_. These are called _tags_ but are not related to post tags.

Since your blog is just a part of your site, you might want to prefix the permalink with _/blog/_, so you would put _/blog/%postname%/_ in the _Custom Structure_ box. That way, people can just remove the post name part of the URL to get to your _Blog Home_ page.

Or, you might include the category in the permalink, which gives better context and possibly includes useful keywords in the URL: _/%category%/%postname%/_ OR _/blog/%category%/%postname%/_. Note that if you assign multiple categories to a post and use the category in the permalink, WordPress will select one based on alphabetical order. Also note that if you assign a subcategory to a post, the parent and subcategory will both be included in the permalink, separated by slashes. Let's change the _Custom Structure_ to _/blog/%category%/%postname%/_.

At the bottom of this page, you can specify the bases for the category archives and the tag archives. By default, categories start with _/category/_ and tags start with _/tag/_. The example suggests that you might want to use _topic_ instead of _category_. Because we are prefixing our post names with _/blog/_, this will be prefixed to the _/category/_, _/tag/_, and _/author/_ archive permalinks as well.

Save the page and let's take a look at the URLs for the posts, category archives, and tag archives.
