---
layout: default
title: "9.0.5 Adjusting Hustle"
published: false
---

# 9.0.5 Adjusting Hustle

Last week, we enabled the _Hustle_ plugin to solicit newsletter subscribers using a _Slide-In_. Unfortunately, I missed a very important recommendation: don't keep bugging people if they close the _Slide-In_! Now, of course, this may depend on the Web site, but generally speaking if someone clicks the _X_ to close something, they want it to stay closed. By default, though, _Hustle_ will execute our trigger logic on every page of the site, so until someone subscribes they will see the slide-in over and over again on each page, which will likely drive them away!

Let's fix this:

1. Go to _Hustle > Slide-ins_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Edit our _Weekly Newsletter_ slide-in.
3. Click _Behavior_.
4. Scroll down to _Closing Behavior_ and ensure that _Slide-in closed by the visitor by clicking on “x” icon_ is checked. Note that if you choose to toggle the _Auto-Close slide-in_ option above, you can choose to include that in the _Closing Behavior_ logic as well.
5. Select _Do not show this slide-in across the site_.
6. Change _Reset this after_ to _10 minutes_.

That way if someone spends a lot of time on your site you will periodically nudge them, but otherwise they won't see the slide-in repeatedly. On a production site, you would likely want to conduct user testing and tweak this based on feedback. You would also want to provide another method of signing up for the newsletter, such as a dedicated page on the site or perhaps a form in the site's footer.
