---
layout: default
title: "9.1 Maps"
published: false
---

# 9.1 Maps

Sometimes a Web site needs a map. You might want to show people where your business is located, or perhaps you want to show people where stores that carry your product are located; I recently spoke with another Web developer who had built a directory site where people could find local artisans; parks might want to provide detailed maps of where facilities and trailheads are found; and historical educational sites might want to illustrate where certain events took place. Those are just a few of the many examples of how you might use a map on a Web site. It's possible to create both simple maps as well as more complex mapping solutions, such as store locators, using plugins.

We're going to add a simple map to our Tutorial Site using one plugin and talk a little about associated costs and considerations and then I'm going to briefly show you another cool mapping plugin that I found.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _WP Go Maps_ and install and activate it.
3. The free version of _WP Go Maps_ supports a single map with optional store locator. It supports using _Google Maps_ or _OpenLayers_ for the map engine. Google Maps is a popular option and the company provides a generous free tier, but after that they charge you money, which means that you need to set up an account and provide a payment method. Consequently, we're going to use the _OpenLayers_ engine, which is completely free and doesn't require an account set-up for the features we will be using. Click _Maps_ on the _Admin menu_ and follow the installation wizard to select _OpenLayers_ as the map engine and _OpenStreetMap_ as the tile server. I encourage you to look up _OpenLayers_ and _OpenStreetMap_ to learn more about them.
4. Our free map has already been created, so let's click on it to edit it.
5. Go to _Settings > General_ and change the map name to _Where We Are_ and adjust the height to _500px_, then click _Save Map_.
6. Click _Markers_.
7. Edit the existing marker and replace _California_ with the coordinates: _44.8768, -70.5855_. Note that you could use an address instead.
8. Click _Save Marker_.
9. Click around and explore the options available in _WP Go Maps_. You can add polygons and other shapes and labels. You can also turn on a _Store Locator_, which is a search box overlay within the map.
10. Now let's add this map to our _Location_ page. Go to _Pages_ on the _Admin menu_ and click _Edit_ under the _Location_ page.
11. Add a block and search for _Map_. Note that there is an option for _Map_ and one for _Store Locator_. The _Store Locator_ block provides a box for people to enter their location and that box can either update the map on the same page or link to a different page that contains the map, which could be handy for placing the locator in a header or footer. Note that the _Store Locator_ block doesn't provide an actual listing of locations - it simply adjusts the zoom and center point of the map.
12. Save the page and take a look at the result!

As I mentioned, there are many plugins for creating maps, depending on what you want to do. To get you thinking about the possibilities, I want to share another plugin that I came across. This one is called _Open User Map_. You don't need to install it on your tutorial site, but let's take a look at what it does. In addition to providing a _Simple Map_ that you can place your own markers on, similar to _WP Go Maps_, _Open User Map_ provides an _Interactive Map_ option that you can use to allow your visitors to submit their own markers. You are notified when new markers are submitted and have to approve each one before it appears for anyone else. How do you think you might use this?
