---
layout: default
title: "9.2 Calendars"
published: true
---

# 9.2 Calendars

Event Calendars don't fit on all sites, but they can be used in various ways depending on the site. I've been researching for a weekend trip to a coastal town in a nearby state and I've enjoyed seeing how bars, museums, venues, libraries, and tourism sites make use of event calendars, both for displaying their own events and promotions and for highlighting holidays and events happening elsewhere in the local area. Event calendars can be used to list recurring events as well as one-time events and sometimes they provide the ability to sell tickets, which could be used for managing registrations for upcoming courses, collecting registrations and donations for upcoming fundraisers, selling tickets for performances, and many other things.

Let's install one plug-in to display upcoming events at _Geekaway_.

1. Go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_ and search for _The Events Calendar_, then install and activate it.
2. This created a new _Events_ section of the _Admin menu_. Click _Events > Events_ on the _Admin menu_.
3. Click _Set up my calendar_. This will take you through a quick setup process. You can always change these settings later, but let's go through them now to get a sense of the options available and to get our calendar set up.
4. The first step is to choose the calendar views that should be available. Let's leave them all selected for now, but you can always come back and adjust this later. Click _Next_ when you're ready to move on.
5. The next step is to choose the date, time, and currency settings. The default settings are pretty good, but feel free to adjust them if you like. Click _Next_ when you're ready to move on.
6. Next, add your first event organizer. This is the person or organization responsible for the event. You can add more organizers later, but let's add one now so that we have an organizer to assign to our first event. Type _Geekaway_ in the _Organizer Name_ box and click _Continue_.
7. Next, create your first venue. This is the location where the event will take place. Type _The Arcade_ in the _Venue Name_ box and click _Continue_.
8. Next, you can optionally install the _Event Tickets_ plugin, which allows you to sell tickets for your events. We'll cover that in the next tutorial, so uncheck the box and click _Continue_ to skip this step for now.
9. We're presented with a summary of our settings and the option to go back and change any of them. Click _Events > Settings_ now to go through a few additional options.
10. Take note of the notifications at the top of the page. One of these indicates that we have a conflict between the plugin's _Events URL slug_ (the slug that is used for a page that displays and allows sorting and searching all events) and the URL of the page we created for our events. The plugin will take precedence over the page, so we will need to delete the page and update our navigation if needed.
11. The _Single event URL slug_ is the base for each page describing a single event. We're going to keep the default for this as well.
12. _Include events in main blog loop_ allows us to include events on the blog page and anywhere else that blog posts are displayed. Some sites will treat events and blog posts similarly, in which case checking this box might be appropriate, but we want to keep blogs and events separate, so we will keep it unchecked.
13. The _Enable the Month View Cache_ option can improve performance by caching the month view of the calendar. This is a good option to enable and is enabled by default. You can click the link to learn more about how it works and how to clear the cache if needed.
14. We are going to leave the rest of the as the defaults. Note that we could choose to automatically delete events that are in the past after a set period of time (under the _Maintenance_ section), but we will keep the default of not doing that.
15. Click _Editing_ to move on to the next section of settings.
16. The _Activate Block Editor for Events_ option allows you to use the _Block Editor_ when creating and editing events. This is a great option to enable, especially if you want to add images or other media to your event descriptions, so let's check that box and save the changes.
17. _Enable WordPress Custom Fields on events in the classic editor_ allows you to use custom fields when creating and editing events in the _Classic Editor_. This is a good option to enable if you are using the _Classic Editor_, but since we just enabled the _Block Editor_, we will leave this unchecked. If you are using the _Classic Editor_, you may want to check this box to have access to custom fields, which can be used for adding additional information about your events that isn't included in the default event fields.
18. Click _Display_.
19. Here we can adjust how events and event lists are displayed. For example, we could make our _Events_ page default to showing a month view or day view, or keep the default of listing out all upcoming events. We could even turn off some of those views. Take a moment to browse through the many options.
20. Notice in the _Maps_ section that this include _Google Maps_ functionality and that a default API key is included for basic mapping features but that other mapping features require you to provide your own API key. Let's disable maps since our events will simply be taking place at different places within our campus rather than vastly different locations.
21. Save the changes.
22. Let's set up some categories for our events by clicking _Event Categories_.
23. This should look familiar - _The Event Calendar_ uses custom WordPress taxonomies to provide event categories and tags and custom WordPress post types for events, venues, and organizers. Add a _Coding Workshops_ category and then add subcategories of _Python Programming_, _Web Development_, _Mobile App Development_, _Machine Learning_, and _Game Development_. Then add _Outdoor Group Activities_ as a parent category and add subcategories of _Day Trips_, _Overnight Trips_, _Nature Talks_, and _Outdoor Excursions_. Finally, add _Special Events_ as a parent category.
24. Now that we have our categories set up, let's add some events! Click _Add New_ under _Events_.
25. Specify the title of _Introduction to Python_.
26. Set the date to May 16 and the time to 9:00 am - 11:00 am.
27. Enter the following as a description:

> This workshop is for the absolute beginner wanting to slowly walk through the process of getting started with Python, a programming language commonly used for data analysis.  We’ll work through installation and setup of some helpful software and introduce basic concepts and terminology used in Python.  Finally, we’ll work together to create your first simple but useful program!

28. Type 0 in the _Price_ box to make the event free.
29. Joy will be teaching the workshop. In the _Organizer_ box, type _Joy_ and click _Create: Joy_.
30. Add an email address of joy@geekaway.local so that people know how to email her.
31. In the _Venue_ box, type _Classroom 3_ and click _Create: Classroom 3_. We won't provide any additional location details.
32. Note that you can add an event Web site, set event sharing settings, and even add other blocks - this is the _Block Editor_ after all.
33. Click _Publish_.
34. Let's check out the _Events_ page and see how this looks!
35. Notice that you can switch the view and search for events. You can also subscribe to the calendar.
36. If you click an event, you can see the details.

This is great, but what if we want to sell tickets or, in our case, ask people to register for the free event? We'll cover that in the next tutorial.
