---
layout: default
title: "9.3 Event Registrations and Tickets and Event Category Pages"
published: true
---

# 9.3 Event Registrations and Tickets and Event Category Pages

Event registrations and ticket sales are provided by _The Events Calendar_ as a separate plugin. Let's install that.

1. Click _Plugins > Add New Plugin_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Search for _Event Tickets and Registration_ and install and activate the plugin after confirming that it is from _The Events Calendar_.
3. An installation confirming page appears. Click _Configure Settings_.
4. We don't need to issue tickets for pages, so uncheck _Page_.
5. We want to keep the defaults otherwise, so click _Save Changes_.
7. It's possible to accept payments via PayPal or Stripe, but we don't need that. It's also possible to customize the emails. I recommend checking out the options for that, but won't be doing that here, either.
8. We can now add tickets and RSVPs to our events, but our prior event needs the feature added, so let's edit it.
9. Add a block of type _RSVP_ above the _Add to Calendar_ button.
10. Type _Register_ in _RSVP Name_ and _15_ in the _RSVP Capacity_ and enable _"Not Going" Responses_. The default duration will work.
11. Click _Settings_ if you want to add an image to the ticket email.
12. Save your changes and then let's see how this looks.
13. I like it! Go ahead and register yourself for the event.
14. Now edit the event and click _View Attendees_ in the _RSVP_ block.
15. Here you can see the people who registered for the event, including those who later said they are not going. This page can be used to check people in when they arrive at the event, in addition to tracking registrations prior to the event. You can also get to this page by going to _Events_ on the _Admin menu_ and then clicking _Attendees_ under the event name. Plus, on the event list, you can now see how full each event is.

By the way, check your email and you should see a ticket confirmation!

Currently we have our link to the _Events_ page, but we don't have links to the individual categories. What if we want to make it easy for people to see individual event categories from the _Geeky Activities_ page? Let's see what we can do:

1. Go to the _Geeky Activities_ page and click _Edit Page_ on the _Admin bar_.
2. Highlight _Python Programming_ and click the _Link_ button on the popover.
3. Type _Python_ in the _Search or type url_ box and wait for a second.
4. _Python Workshops_ of type _tribe_events_cat_ should appear. That is the event category listing page, so click that.
5. Update the page and then view it.
6. There we go! We can now click _Python Programming_ to see the events that have been scheduled for this particular event category!

Check this out: we now have an _RSVP Now_ link under the event as well as the number of spots left! By the way, if you click _RSVP Now_ and scroll up a bit, you should see a message that you have an RSVP. Click _View RSVP_ to see your options. Here you can update the status for each attendee that you registered. It's important to note that this is what your end user would see. Also, there is a _Can't go_ button below the _Going_ button that people who registered and were not logged in can use to tell you that they won't be able to attend after all.
