---
layout: default
title: "9.4 Optional Tutorial: Local Development"
published: false
---

# 9.4 Optional Tutorial: Local Development

In this tutorial we are going to talk about site development workflow and in specific about a tool that can help you build WordPress sites on your local machine. So far in this course we have been using a workflow that involves a development server that is located in the cloud. In an ideal Web development situation, you have at least three separate environments:

1. Your development environment is configured with development-specific tools and settings and, as you might guess, is where your actual development work takes place. Depending on the size of your team and the specifics of a particular project, you may find yourself using multiple development environments, such as one local environment that you use to work on things that you are solely responsible for and another cloud-based development environment that everyone shares and where you place work that you are ready to share. That's especially true if you are developing custom themes and/or plugins since when it comes to page content or doing stuff with FSE, the process of migrating changes between your local environment and a development server is cumbersome.
2. Your production environment is where your site gets deployed when it's ready to be used. It doesn't include the development tools and settings, and instead is configured to improve performance and security, such as using caching technologies, disabling error reporting, and using a Web application firewall.
3. Your staging environment is meant to mimic your production environment, but is used as a final testing location before the site is deployed to production. The idea is that after all other testing has been performed, you need to ensure that the site is going to run smoothly in the production environment before actually deploying it there. If you accidentally built in a dependency on something that is used purely in the development environment and not in production, if a change that you implemented causes bottlenecks with a caching product you are using, or if the site is now going to depend on a new technology that will need to be installed on the production server, it should be caught when you migrate to staging so that deploying to production is seamless.

In this video we are going to be focusing on the development environment, but I wanted to share that little bit about how this fits in a typical workflow.

The tool that I want to share with you is called [Local](https://localwp.com/) and is available at <localwp.com>. It is a free tool from [WP Engine](https://wpengine.com/about-us/), a large WordPress-specific hosting provider that also produces some popular WordPress plugins. The tool is designed to make it easy for you to set up a local development environment for your WordPress project. As you might expect, the tool also makes it easy to deploy that site to WP Engine's own services, but it works great even if you don't use WP Engine.

Let's install Local and walk through how to use it. Go to <localwp.com> and click _Download_ and then choose your own platform. This will download the installer to your computer. Pause the video while you download and install it and then continue when you have launched Local.

You can create a new site using the big plus button. You get a choice of creating a new site, using a Blueprint (which includes a set of pre-installed elements), or using a ZIP file containing an existing site. For now, let's create a new site.

You provide a name here and can optionally adjust the domain and path. Let's called it _My Local Site_ and click _Continue_.

You have control over the Web server, PHP version, and database version, but we'll use the _Preferred_ and click _Continue_.

Next you provide an admin account and optionally make this a multisite installation. We haven't yet discussed WordPress Multisite, but we'll touch on it in a few weeks. Click _Add Site_ and watch it work!

We can now see that our site is set up and is running. Let's look at what we have for options here:

1. The elipsis button gives us several options, including many of the options that appear elsewhere on this page. One option that I'd like to point out is the _Save as Blueprint_ option. If you find that you typically start setting up a new WordPress site the same way (such as installing the same set of plugins), you could set up a new site and get it to that point where you would start customizing the site and then create a Blueprint at that point. Then the next time you create a new site, you can use the Blueprint to save yourself having to install all of those plugins.
2. The _Stop Site_ button is self-explanatory and turns into a _Start Site_ button when the site is not running.
3. The .local site domain is listed here and can be changed.
4. The SSL certificate is listed here and you can click _Trust_ so that your Web browser won't display a warning about the certificate. Let's do that now.
5. You can change the Web server and the PHP version.
6. You can also turn on one-click admin, so that clicking _WP Admin_ logs you in without entering your password. Turn this on.
7. You can turn on _Xdebug_ to help with troubleshooting PHP issues on your site. You can learn more about that by hovering over the info icon and clicking _Learn More_.
8. The _Database_ tab lets you see your database credentials and administer the database using _AdminerEvo_.
9. The _Tools_ tab includes a couple of options to begin with and add-ons can add additional options here.
10. _Local_ uses _Mailpit_ to capture emails sent by WordPress and you can click _Open Mailpit_ to see those emails. Let's do that and see the first message that was sent.
11. _Live Links_ allows you to quickly and easily give other people a link that they can use to view your site while you have it running on your computer. It does this by setting up a secure tunnel between your installation of _Local_ and the outside world. Note that your computer has to be awake, connected to the Internet, and the site running in _Local_. Using this feature requires creating a free _Local_ account. I've already done this, so I'm going to log in and show you how it works.
12. Now that it's set up and turned on, I can share the link and username and password with others. Let's give it a try.
13. If we go back to _Local_, notice that the _Live Link_ information is available at the bottom of the _Local_ window as well.
14. We can turn _Live Links_ back off to disable the tunnel and prevent others from seeing the site.
15. Let's click _WP Admin_. Because one-click admin is turned on, it takes us directly to the _Admin area_ without prompting us to log in.
16. Clicking _Open Site_ takes you to your home page. Note that this isn't using SSL by default, but if we switch to SSL, our certificate is trusted.
17. _Open Site Folder_ allows us to see and edit our site's files directly. Your WordPress installation is found in _app/public_. Every time you stop your site, the entire database gets dumped to a file in _app/sql_. This makes backups easy and can also be used if/when you want to migrate the site to a server.
18. _Open Site Shell_ takes you to a command prompt that you can use to execute commands, and it comes with the WP CLI (WordPress Command Line Interface) pre-installed. We'll be talking more about the WP CLI in a few weeks and you'll see that it's super powerful.
19. The _Pull_ and _Push_ buttons can be used to migrate between _Local_ and a server. This requires using one of WP Engine's hosting platforms or the _WP Migrate_ plugin, all of which cost money (although you can use _WP Migrate_ free for academic purposes). We're going to talk more about migration using manual vs. automated approaches in a few weeks.
20. _Local_ provides a number of add-ons that you can install. I won't go into details here, but I recommend checking out _Image Optimizer_, _Cloud Backups_, and _Link Checker_.

So, what if you have a site on a server (such as our _Tutorial Site_) and you want to move it into _Local_? It's super easy! All that you need to do is create a .zip file that contains the _wp-content_ directory and a SQL file containing your exported database. Of course, you can do this manually by downloading the _wp-content_ directory, exporting your database into a .sql file, and placing them together in a .zip file. Or, you could use a Bash script like the one that I've provided in this tutorial's description to do it for you. If you use the Bash script, you'll just need to update a few variables and then place it in your home directory on the CIS student server and run it via SSH.

You can see that I've already saved the Bash script and given myself Execute permission for it. I can run it and then watch it work! Then I can download the .zip file to my personal machine using SFTP, open _Local_, add a new site using an existing ZIP file, and follow the steps to import it. Then I can start the site and test it out.

Well, that's a very brief overview of how to use _Local_ as part of your WordPress development workflow. I hope it's helpful!

```
#!/bin/bash
TIME=`date +%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M`                      # This Command will read the date.
FILES_FILENAME=tutorial-export-$TIME.tar.gz      # The filename including the date.
SRCDIR=$HOME/www/cis338/tutorial                 # Source backup folder.
DESDIR=$HOME/cis338-export                       # Destination of backup file.
DB_FILENAME=tutorial-db-$TIME.sql                # The filename including the date.
DBSERVER=127.0.0.1                               # Database server
DATABASE=UPDATEME                                # Database name
USER=UPDATEME                                    # Database username
PASS=UPDATEME                                    # Database password

# Create the temporary directory if it doesn't exist
mkdir $DESDIR

# Copy the files to the temporary directory
cp -R $SRCDIR $DESDIR

# Create the non-compressed database backup .sql file
mysqldump --opt --user=$USER --password=$PASS $DATABASE > $DESDIR/$DB_FILENAME

# Compress the temporary directory, which contains the .sql file
cd $DESDIR
zip -r ${DESDIR}.zip *

# Remove the temporary directory
rm -rf $DESDIR
```
