---
layout: default
title: "9.4 Development Workflow"
published: true
---

# 9.4 Development Workflow

In this tutorial we are going to talk about site development workflow. So far in this course we have been using Local to develop our WordPress sites on our local machines. In an ideal Web development situation, you have at least three separate environments:

1. Your development environment is configured with development-specific tools and settings and, as you might guess, is where your actual development work takes place. Depending on the size of your team and the specifics of a particular project, you may find yourself using multiple development environments, such as one local environment that you use to work on things that you are solely responsible for and another cloud-based development environment that everyone shares and where you place work that you are ready to share. That's especially true if you are developing custom themes and/or plugins since when it comes to page content or doing stuff with FSE, the process of migrating changes between your local environment and a development server is cumbersome.
2. Your production environment is where your site gets deployed when it's ready to be used. It doesn't include the development tools and settings, and instead is configured to improve performance and security, such as using caching technologies, disabling error reporting, and using a Web application firewall.
3. Your staging environment is meant to mimic your production environment, but is used as a final testing location before the site is deployed to production. The idea is that after all other testing has been performed, you need to ensure that the site is going to run smoothly in the production environment before actually deploying it there. If you accidentally built in a dependency on something that is used purely in the development environment and not in production, if a change that you implemented causes bottlenecks with a caching product you are using, or if the site is now going to depend on a new technology that will need to be installed on the production server, it should be caught when you migrate to staging so that deploying to production is seamless.

So, what if you have a site on a server (such as our _Tutorial Site_) and you want to move it into _Local_? It's super easy! All that you need to do is create a .zip file that contains the _wp-content_ directory and a SQL file containing your exported database. Of course, you can do this manually by downloading the _wp-content_ directory, exporting your database into a .sql file, and placing them together in a .zip file. Or, you could use a Bash script like the one that I've provided below to do it for you. If you use the Bash script, you'll just need to update a few variables and then place it on the server and run it via SSH.

You can see that I've already saved the Bash script and given myself Execute permission for it. I can run it and then watch it work! Then I can download the .zip file to my personal machine using SFTP, open _Local_, add a new site using an existing ZIP file, and follow the steps to import it. Then I can start the site and test it out.

Well, that's a very brief overview of how to use _Local_ as part of your WordPress development workflow. I hope it's helpful!

```
#!/bin/bash

# USE AT YOUR OWN RISK! This script is provided for educational
# purposes only. Always make sure to have a backup of your data
# before running any scripts that modify files or databases.

# This script will create a .zip file that contains the wp-content
# directory and a SQL file containing your exported database. You
# can use this to move a site from a server into Local.
TIME=`date +%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M`                  # This Command will read the date.
FILES_FILENAME=tutorial-export-$TIME.tar.gz  # The filename including the date.
SRCDIR=/PUBLIC/SOURCE/FOLDER/HERE            # Source backup folder.
DESDIR=/PRIVATE/BACKUP/FOLDER/HERE           # Destination of backup file.
DB_FILENAME=tutorial-db-$TIME.sql            # The filename including the date.
DBSERVER=127.0.0.1                           # Database server
DATABASE=UPDATEME                            # Database name
USER=UPDATEME                                # Database username
PASS=UPDATEME                                # Database password

# Create the temporary directory if it doesn't exist
mkdir $DESDIR

# Copy the files to the temporary directory
cp -R $SRCDIR $DESDIR

# Create the non-compressed database backup .sql file
mysqldump --opt --user=$USER --password=$PASS $DATABASE > $DESDIR/$DB_FILENAME

# Compress the temporary directory, which contains the .sql file
cd $DESDIR
zip -r ${DESDIR}.zip *

# Remove the temporary directory
rm -rf $DESDIR
```
