---
layout: default
title: "3.1 Storyboarding and Prototyping"
---

# 3.1 Storyboarding and Prototyping

If you do some searching using your favorite search engine for what a Web site storyboard is or how to create a Web site storyboard, you will find a wide variety of answers. Storyboarding is part of the User Experience (UX) Design Process and might be considered a type of prototype. Generally, storyboards are not as detailed as wireframes but are more fleshed-out than sitemaps. In fact, a Web development team might follow a process of building a sitemap, then a storyboard, then a wireframe, potentially with other deliverables in between some of those things. Other teams, though, might skip the sitemap because the ideation process of creating the storyboard almost always leads to changes in the sitemap, so why not just build the sitemap from the storyboard? Like the sitemap and wireframe(s), the storyboard can not only help the team but also assists in communicating with the client, ensuring that everyone is on the same page.

Keep in mind that the exact process that a team follows and how different tools and concepts are used in that process is different for each team.

A sitemap, by the way, is like an outline of a Web site. It's just the structure, no content. A wireframe is a prototype of a Web site that is generally black and white and uses standard fonts and placeholder graphics. It gives an idea of how a site will work without getting into the finer details of colors, branding, and artwork. High fidelity wireframes are quite detailed and sometimes include interactive components, while low fidelity wireframes are much simpler, less detailed, and lack interaction.

For the purposes of this course, we're going to define a storyboard as a rough draft of our Web site that includes the structure, some preliminary content drafts and notes about other content needed, and provides us with a rough idea of what the site will include. It's not going to be built with WordPress or HTML. In fact, it could be built on paper or a whiteboard. One great way of storyboarding is to get your team in a room with a whiteboard and stacks of blank sticky notes and have people write content suggestions on the sticky notes and then move them around on the whiteboard until a set of sections and individual pages can be agreed upon.

In the next video, we'll take a look at the storyboard for our tutorial site, Geekaway, which was built using software but in a manner that is reminiscent of a whiteboard with sticky notes.
