---
layout: default
title: "12.1 A Simple Shopping Cart"
published: true
---

# 12.1 A Simple Shopping Cart

Setting up an ecommerce site is a big topic. In fact, we have an entire course about it - CIS 438, which has in the past used a WordPress plugin called WooCommerce and which we expect will use the cloud-based Shopify ecommerce platform next time it is offered. Fortunately, selling a few things on your WordPress site is quite simple thanks to plugins combined with payment platforms such as PayPal and Stripe. This week, we will use a plugin called _WordPress Simple Shopping Cart_, which is very well named!

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _WordPress Simple Shopping Cart_ and install and activate the plugin by _Tips and Tricks HQ, Ruhul Amin, mra13_.
3. If we look at the _Admin menu_ now, there are two new items: _Cart Orders_ and _Simple Cart_. _Cart Orders_ is where we will manage orders that have come in. We can even create orders from the _Admin area_ so that we can easily keep records of orders that are placed by phone or in person.
4. For now, we are going to focus on the _Simple Cart_ menu. Click that to be taken to the _Simple Cart Settings_ page.
5. At the top, we see the shortcodes that we can use to add the _Add To Cart_ button and shopping cart detail to our pages. The plugin also provides blocks, so we won't be using these, but if you find yourself using the classic editor, those will come in handy.
6. Next we have our _PayPal_ settings. Enter your @maine.edu email address here for now - we'll change it in the next tutorial.
7. The first checkbox determines if we want the standard _PayPal_ button to appear. We do want to use that, so leave it unchecked.
8. Check _Must Collect Shipping Address on PayPal_ to ensure that _PayPal_ collects shipping details from customers.
9. _Use PayPal Profile Based Shipping_ allows us to specify shipping types and prices in _PayPal_, which provides more flexibility than the plugin does. We won't go into the details, but there are instructions linked here, although the location of the _Shipping Calculations_ option within _PayPal_ has changed since the instructions were written - you'll find it by hovering over your name in the upper right-hand corner and clicking _Account Settings_.
10. Scroll through and take a look at the other settings available. We're going to change a few of these, but first let's create a few pages. Click _Update Options_ to save the one change that we made so far.
11. Hover over _New_ on the _Admin bar_ and Control-click _Page_ to create a new page in a new tab.
12. Enter a title of _Shop_.
13. In the _Settings_ pane, click _Set Featured Image_ and use _Instant Images_ to find an image of a gift shop.
14. There's more we'll do here in a bit, but for now let's publish the page and then click _Add New Page_.
15. On the new page, supply a title of _Shopping Cart_.
16. Use the prior featured image for this page as well.
17. In the body, type a slash followed by _cart_ and select _Simple Cart - Shopping Cart_.
18. With the shopping cart block selected, change the _Cart Display Options_ in the _Settings_ pane to _Display Cart Always_.
19. Below the shopping cart block, add a _Buttons_ block and type _Keep Shopping_ into the first button.
20. Click the _Link_ tool and search for the _Shop_ page that you just created.
21. Select the _Buttons_ block and use the _Change items justification_ button to center the button.
22. Use the _Page_ tab in the _Settings_ pane to change the slug to _cart_.
23. Publish the page and then copy the URL.
24. Return to the _Simple Cart Settings_ tab and scroll down to the _Automatic Redirection to Checkout Page_ option. Check that and paste in the URL that you copied.
25. Return to the _Edit Page_ tab and add a new page.
26. Title this one _Thank You For Your Order!_ and type the following into the page: _Your order will be on the way soon! We'll send your tracking number when it is._
27. Use the prior featured image for this page as well.
28. Publish the page and then copy the URL.
29. Return to the _Simple Cart Settings_ tab and scroll up a little to _Return URL (Thank You Page)_ and paste the URL that you copied into the box.
30. Scroll down to the bottom of the settings and check the box labeled _Enable Sandbox Testing_. With this selected, we can test our shop using a _PayPal Sandbox_ account to run test transactions rather than needing to create or use a live account with real money.
31. Click _Update Options_.
32. Click the _Email Settings_ tab.
33. Here you can customize the order confirmation that goes to the customer and the noficiation that you will receive. We'll leave these as-is.
34. Click the _Shipping Settings_ tab.
35. The _Base Shipping Cost_ allows us to add an amount of money that will be charged in addition to any per-product shipping charges. Type _5_ to set this to $5.
36. _Free Shipping for Orders Over_ is pretty self-explanatory. Let's set it to 100 so that very large orders will ship for free.
37. The final checkbox allows us to set different shipping charges for different regions, including cities, states, and countries. We won't do this, but if you were to ship internationally and weren't using PayPal's shipping calculations, you would likely need to do this.
38. Click _Update Options_.

This plugin supports both _PayPal_ and _Stripe_. In the next video, we're going to set up a _PayPal Sandbox_ account so that we can test. We won't be setting up a _PayPal Live_ account or a _Stripe_ account. If you click the _Stripe Settings_ tab, you can see that there are instructions available and that _Stripe_ supports test transactions, so I encourage you to check that out if you are interested.
