---
layout: default
title: "12.3 Creating Products"
published: true
---

# 12.3 Creating Products

It's time to create some products!

1. Go to _Pages_ in the _Admin menu_ and edit the _Shop_ page.
2. Type a slash followed by _group_ and select the _Group_ block.
3. Configure the block as a _Row_.
4. Click _Add Block_ and search for _Cart_.
5. In addition to the shopping cart block, the plugin provides two other block types. One displays just an _Add to Cart_ button and the other displays a box with the product details. Let's start with the second option by selecting _Simple Cart - Product Box_.
6. In the _Settings_ pane, type _Handcrafted Mug_ in the _Name_ box.
7. In the _Price_ box, type _29.95_.
8. In the _Description_ box, type _This beautiful handcrafted mug is made by the same local artisans who lead our pottery classes! If you made a mug here and want similar mugs to fill out your collection, this is the item for you! Each mug is unique, so expect some slight differences between mugs._.
9. Type _3_ in the _Shipping Cost_ - remember that this is added to the base shipping cost.
10. The _File URL_ is for digital products and is sent to the customer after purchasing. In our case, we'll leave that blank.
11. We need to provide a _Thumbnail URL_ but we don't have one yet.
12. Download the provided product-images.zip file and extract the contents.
13. Control-click the _WordPress_ logo to go to the _Admin area_ in a separate tab and then switch to that tab.
14. Click _Media > Add New Media File_ and upload the images from the .zip file.
15. Click _Copy URL to Clipboard_ next to the _handcrafted-mug-thumbnail.jpg_ file.
16. Return to the _Edit Page_ tab and paste the URL into the _Thumbnail URL_ box.
17. Type _Turquoise example mug_ in the _Thumbnail Alt Text_ box and leave the _Thumbnail Target URL_ box blank.
18. Do not check _It's a digital product_.
19. You can customize the text or supply an image for the _Add to Cart_ button, but we will leave those as-is.
20. You can also specify variations. Let's provide a choice in colors. Expand _Product Variations_ and type the following in _Variation 1_. The first part is the variation name that is shown to the customer. It is followed by a pipe symbol (below the backslash on your keyboard) and then each of the options appear separated by pipes:

```
Color|turquoise|lilac|pink|blue|slate|sunshine
```

21. You can supply up to 3 variations, but we will only do the one. Add another _Simple Cart - Product Box_ block to the _Row_ block.
22. Proceed to add the mousepad with a name of _Gaming Mousepad_, price of _16.95_, description of _By popular demand, the same mousepad we use in our labs!_, shipping cost of _3_, the appropriate thumbnail URL, and no variations.
23. Select the _Row_ block and adjust the _Vertical Alignment_ to _Align top_.
24. Update the page and then view it.
25. As you can see, the _Simple Cart - Product Box_ block provides a nice, uniform layout for each product. Add one of each product to your cart and notice the flow - it takes you to the cart after adding the product and you can click _Keep Shopping_ to go back to the gift shop. Now that you have both items in your cart, click _Keep Shopping_ again.
26. If we decide that we are done, how do we get back to the cart? In the discussion activity this week you are exploring cart abandonment. Not providing people with a way to get to the cart without adding another product is a good way to lose customers! Let's fix this. Click _Edit Page_ on the _Admin bar_.
27. Select the _Row_ block and add a new block before it.
28. Type a slash and select a _Buttons_ block.
29. Type _Go to Cart_ in the first button and make it a link to the shopping cart page.
30. Right justify the buttons.
31. Click the _Options_ for the _Buttons_ block and click _Duplicate_.
32. Move the duplicate to the bottom of the page. That way people will see a way back to the cart from the top or bottom of the page - very useful as our list of items grows!
33. Update the page and view it again.
34. Click _Go to Cart_ and you should still see the items in your cart.
35. Add another mug with a different color to confirm that you can add muliple variations for a single product.
