---
layout: default
title: "12.5 Testing Checkout"
published: true
---

# 12.5 Testing Checkout

Before we begin, remember that we are configured to use the _PayPal Sandbox_ so nothing you do here will actually charge a real _PayPal_ account or credit card!

Let's try checking out!

1. Click _Checkout with PayPal_.
2. You will be taken to the standard _PayPal_ checkout process. Notice the URL contains the domain name _www.sandbox.paypal.com_, so we are using the _Sandbox_.
3. Return to the _PayPal Developer Dashboard_ and go back to your list of sandbox accounts.
4. Click the personal account.
5. Copy the email and then paste it into the _PayPal_ login screen.
6. Copy the password and paste it into the _PayPal_ login screen as well.
7. Click _Log In_.
8. Your _PayPal_ balance is sufficient to pay for the order, so use that option and click _Complete Purchase_.
9. You'll receive a confirmation that you paid _Test Store_. Click _Return to Merchant_.
10. You will be taken to the _Thank You For Your Order!_ page that we created before.
11. Return to the _WordPress Admin area_ and click _Cart Orders_ in the _Admin menu_.
12. Click the order ID to view the details.
13. Return to the _PayPal Developer Dashboard_.
14. In a separate tab, navigate to <https://www.sandbox.paypal.com/> and then log in with the username and password for the personal account.
15. Notice the test transaction.
16. Log out of that account and then log into the business sandbox account to confirm that the test transaction was received.

Although we won't go into detail about troubleshooting, _WordPress Simple Shopping Cart_ provides a debug log that will help you if things aren't working properly. For security and optimization reasons, it should only be enabled during testing. To enable it:

1. Return to the _WordPress Admin area_ and click _Simple Cart > Settings_ in the _Admin menu_.
2. Scroll down to the bottom and check _Enable Debug_.
3. Click _Update Options_.
4. Once you've done some test transactions, you can see the debug log by coming back to this page and clicking _View Debug Log File_.
5. You would then want to uncheck _Enable Debug_ once you have solved your problem.

Finally, remember that in order to go live with your shop, you would uncheck _Enable Sandbox Testing_ and put your live account's email address in the _Paypal Email Address_ box.
