---
layout: default
title: "12.6 Analytics / Statistics"
published: true
---

# 12.6 Analytics / Statistics

Being able to analyze your site usage is essential if you are trying to understand trends, see what you are doing that works and what doesn't, and/or prove the value of the site. If you are a Web developer working for clients, this can help you justify your fees.

We're not going to set up analytics, but I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about how you might do that.

[_Google Analytics_](https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/) is a popular way of tracking and analyzing site usage. It is a free tool from Google and requires placing a small code snippet on every page on your site. [_MonsterInsights_](https://www.monsterinsights.com/) is a WordPress plugin that can be used to place the Google Analytics code on your site as well as to view charts within the _WordPress Admin area_, so you can see your stats without leaving _WordPress_. [_Site Kit by Google_](https://wordpress.org/plugins/google-site-kit/) is another WordPress plugin that can be used to place the Google Analytics code on your site and view some basic statistics within the _Admin area_, although it doesn't provide as many visuals as _MonsterInsights_. _Site Kit_ also integrates with _Search Console_, _PageSpeed_, _AdSense_, and _Google Tag Manager_.

If you prefer to avoid _Google_ products, _Jetpack Stats_ is a component of the _Jetpack_ plugin that provides traffic statistics as well as analytical insights. It is free for non-commercial use and for commercial use there is a charge based on site traffic.

As I pointed out a few weeks ago, _ManageWP_ also provides very basic site statistics.

This is a _very_ brief look. I encourage you to do some research on your own and see what other options you can find.
