---
layout: default
title: "14.1 Search Engine Optimization, Part 1"
published: false
---

# 14.1 Search Engine Optimization, Part 1

Due to the massive number of Web sites on any given topic, it can be difficult to ensure that your Web site gets found when people are looking for what you offer. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is a generic term for the process of improving your likelihood of being found organicly on search engine result pages (SERPs), including Google, Bing, and others. SEO is a part of Search Engine Marketing (SEM), along with Pay-Per-Click (PPC), which is a type of digital marketing in which advertisers bid on search keywords and phrases and pay when someone clicks on their ad that appears within or next to organic (non-paid) search results. Many sites will utilize both SEO (organic search) and PPC (paid search) in order to ensure that people find them.

There are three basic types of SEO:

- _Technical SEO_ involves optimizing the technical aspects of the Web site, such as URL structure, internal links, XML sitemaps, page load speed, Core Web Vitals, mobile-friendliness, and many other factors that we will be looking at this week.
- _On-site SEO_ involves optimizing the content of your site for both people and search engines, which includes ensuring that the topics discussed are relevant to your site, checking grammar and spelling, using proper semantic markup to make the content easy to read and easy for a search engine to understand, ensuring that your information is accurate and up-to-date, providing images and videos with proper accessibility (such as alt properties and captions and subtitles), and others.
- _Off-site SEO_ involves doing things that bring brand awareness and recognition as well as demand generation. This can include "IRL" (in real life) activities, such as attending events and advertising on billboards, but also includes partnerships with content creators and influencers to share your brand and provide links to your site. For example, writing a guest post on another blog that will include a link back to your site is off-site SEO, as is seeking an influencer who will review your product and link to your site either within the review or on social media. These last two examples are a specific type of off-site SEO commonly called _backlinks_.

If you are interested in learning more about SEO in general, [Search Engine Land has some great information](https://searchengineland.com/guide/what-is-seo), as do many other sites.

A few weeks ago, I mentioned a plugin from Google called _Site Kit_. It helps you connect _Google Analytics_ to your WordPress site, but also connects to other Google products. Well, we're going to use _Site Kit_ to help us take advantage of some tools from Google related to technical SEO. Then in the remaining tutorials this week we will use other plugins to cover some other technical SEO and on-site SEO needs.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _Site Kit_ and install and activate the plugin that shows up as _Site Kit by Google – Analytics, Search Console, AdSense, Speed_.
3. Click _Site Kit_ on the _Admin menu_.
4. Optionally, check the box that reads, _Connect Google Analytics as part of your setup_ and click _Sign in with Google_.
5. Select a Google account to use.
6. Click _Continue_.
7. Click _Select All_ to enable _Site Kit_ to connect with _Google Analytics_, _Google Tag Manager_, _Search Console_, and to manage the list of sites that you own.
8. Click _Continue_.
9. _Site Kit_ will offer to set up the verification token that verifies that you own the tutorial site. Click _Verify_.
10. _Site Kit_ offers to display metrics in your dashboard. Click _Allow_.
11. _Site Kit_ offers to add your tutorial site to _Google Search Console_. Click _Set up_.
12. _Site Kit_ offers to set up _Google Analytics_. Click _Next_.
13. _Site Kit_ will prefill a form to create your _Google Analytics_ account. Confirm the details and click _Create Account_. Note that _Enable enhanced measurement_ allows _GA_ to track when people submit forms (such as your contact form), click links from your site to external sites, download files from your site, play videos on your site, scroll on your site, and perform searches on your site.
14. Select your Google account again.
15. Click _Continue_ again.
16. Click _Continue_ again.
17. Select the options that you prefer and click _I Accept_.
18. Click _Go to my Dashboard_.
19. Click _Okay_.
20. Click _See other services_.
21. Currently, _AdSense_ and _Tag Manager_ aren't set up. We won't use those for now, but I encourage you to learn more about them. Click _Connected Services_.
22. Click on each of the three connected services to see what it says about each of them.
23. Click _Admin Settings_.
24. We can enable _consent mode_. We can also choose whether or not we want to see page statistics in the _Admin bar_. I encourage you to explore _consent mode_ and how it helps you comply with various laws in the US and around the world, but given the complexity of it we will be unable to cover it in this course.
25. Return to _Site Kit > Dashboard_ on the _Admin menu_.
26. Scroll through the information available. Most of this isn't filled in yet because we just set up _Site Kit_. The first block comes from _GA_, the second and third boxes come from _Search Console_, the fourth comes from _GA_ again, and then we have one from _PageSpeed Insights_.
27. Scroll back up to one of the boxes from _Search Console_ and click the link to _Search Console_ at the bottom of the box.
28. Spend a little time exploring _Google Search Console_. You may have already expected that the information is rather sparse at the moment, but it's worth exploring the kinds of information that will be available. You will find information about your site as a whole, with notices relating to individual pages. In the next tutorial, we will be coming back here to set up an _XML Sitemap_. In later tutorials, we'll touch on the kinds of information available through _Page Experience_ and _Core Web Vitals_, although we'll be using _PageSpeed Insights_ to do so since that tool's analysis is available before Google indexes your site while the information in _Google Search Console_ is only available after your site is indexed.

You have now told Google about your site and verified your ownership. You've also taken the first step in analyzing your site's performance so that we can start addressing issues there as well. In the next tutorial, we'll install a plugin that helps us address both technical and on-page SEO and with that tool's assistance, we'll start telling Google about the individual pages on our site, including when new pages are created and when existing pages change.
