---
layout: default
title: "14.2 Search Engine Optimization, Part 2"
published: false
---

# 14.2 Search Engine Optimization, Part 2

Now that Google knows about your site and knows that you own it, in this tutorial we're going to look at one plugin that will help us address both technical and on-page SEO, including notifying Google and other search engines about the individual pages on our site, including when new pages are created and when existing pages change. As I'm sure you can imagine, there are many SEO-related plugins. Some of them do the same things, others do different things. _WPMU DEV_ has a popular SEO plugin. Actually, they have several plugins that address SEO in some way. In this tutorial, we're going to use one of the oldest and most popular SEO plugins, called [_Yoast SEO_](https://yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/). Created by an SEO consultant from the Netherlands in 2007, this freemium plugin has stood the test of time and continues to provide a tremendous value in its free and paid offerings.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _Yoast_ and install and activate the plugin that shows up as _Yoast SEO_.
3. Click _Dashboard_ and you'll be taken to a page showing that _Yoast SEO_ has been installed.
4. At the top of this page are two notifications, one from Yoast and one from BPS. The notifiation from Yoast says that we have a serious SEO issue: we are currently telling search engine robots (AKA spiders) to go away! This is standard when you are first creating a site because we don't want to accidentally list our unfinished site on search engines, but it's time to correct this. Control-click the link to _Reading Settings_ and then navigate to the new tab that was opened.
5. Note that we could also get here by going to _Settings > Reading_ on the _Admin menu_. Uncheck _Discourage search engines from indexing this site_ and click _Save Changes_.
6. Close the tab and return to the Yoast message.
7. The notification from BPS says that a recently installed plugin or theme requires a BPS Custom Code whitelist rule. In other words, something that we just installed is currently being negatively impacted by a BPS default setting. We need to re-run the BPS Setup Wizard so that BPS can account for the plugin or theme's needs. Control-click the _Setup Wizard_ link and then switch to the new tab.
8. Click the _Setup Wizard_ button and click _OK_ to re-run the BPS setup wizard and let BPS automatically add the whitelist rule.
9. Take a look at the _BPS Setup Verification & Error Checks_ and notice the line that reads _Yoast SEO Plugin wp-admin skip/bypass rule AutoWhitelist successful_, indicating that Yoast SEO was the plugin that triggered the message from BPS and that it has done what it needs to do.
10. Close the _BPS Setup Wizard_ tab and return to the Yoast message.
11. We're ready to configure _Yoast SEO_! Click the _Start first-time configuration_ button.
12. Click _Start SEO Data Optimization_ to get things started.
13. Although we could move on, it's only going to take a few seconds to complete this process, so watch it do its thing and then click _Continue_.
14. The _Site Representation_ section allows us to provide information that will be placed in our site head section using meta tags with formats that conform to [_structured data schemas_](https://schema.org/docs/schemas.html), [_Open Graph_](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/sharing/webmasters/), and other formats used by social platforms and search engines. As noted, this can increase your chance of having Google feature your content in _rich results_. I encourage you to learn more about structured data and rich results using the [link provided by _Yoast_](https://yoast.com/rich-results-schema-structured-data-story/) and also the links in this video's resources. Confirm that _Organization_ is selected and _Geekaway_ appears in the _Website name_ and _Organization name_ boxes. Upload the logo provided in the video's description as the _Organization logo_.
15. Click _Save and continue_.
16. Next it prompts you for social profiles. We don't have any yet, so we'll click _Save and continue_.
17. Next, _Yoast_ offers to send you weekly SEO tips for free and asks your permission to collect data. Although you are welcome to sign up for the free newsletter, you are also welcome to skip it. Leave the _No_ radio button selected and click _Save and continue_.
18. There are a ton of free SEO resources from Yoast available if you click the [_Learn how to increase your rankings with Yoast SEO_](https://yoast.com/get-the-most-out-of-yoast-seo/) button. If you see yourself building Web sites in the future (especially in WordPress), I encourage you to explore their free online courses, free webinars, and free video guides. Of course, a lot of that free content is designed to promote their paid upgrade, so keep in mind that you will get sales pitches along with the free information.
19. For now, let's go to the _SEO Dashboard_. You'll want to check this page periodically to see if _Yoasts_ offers any suggestions or finds problems.
20. Click _Settings_ under _Yoast SEO_ on the _Admin menu_. Here you can learn about the various features of the plugin and turn them on or off. Again, I encourage you to explore and learn more on your own. For now, scroll down to the bottom and click _View the XML Sitemap_.
21. A new tab opens with a very plain page showing the URLs to multiple XML sitemap files. This is called an XML sitemap index file. XML sitemaps are used by search engines to identify all of the pages of your site. When you create a Web site, it is beneficial for you to create XML sitemap files in order to inform the search engines about all of the pages on your site, including details like when they were last modified. As you make changes, you should update the sitemap files. Yoast takes care of building and updating the files for you, so all that you need to do is notify the search engines so that they know where to find your sitemap files and then the search engines periodically check for updates, Yoast makes updates as often as needed, and you don't need to do anything more with sitemaps. Right-click the sitemap index and view the page source.
22. Take a look at the underlying code that the search engines look at and then close the tab.
23. Copy the URL to the sitemap index file and keep it in a safe place so that we can give it to Google shortly.
24. Notice that sitemaps are created for each type of content, such as pages, posts, photo galleries, and events, as well as certain archive pages and taxonomies, such as authors, categories, and tags. Click one of the sitemap URLs.
25. Right-click and view the source of the page. Here you can see the information that search engines will review and use to inform the process of scanning your site.
26. Close the source code tab and then close the sitemap.
27. Click _Integrations_ under _Yoast SEO_ on the _Admin menu_.
28. You can see the Yoast integrates with various external tools and WordPress plugins, including _The Events Calendar_. Because of the integration between Yoast and The Events Calendar, our event pages will include the structured data that Google can use to provide rich snippets about our events.
29. Let's tell Google about our sitemap. Go to _Site Kit_ on the _Admin menu_.
30. Scroll down to the second box and click _Search Console_.
31. Once logged into _Google Search Console_, click _Sitemaps_ on the menu.
32. In the box that reads _Enter sitemap URL_, enter the portion of the sitemap URL that falls after your site's homepage URL. In other words, type _sitemap_index.xml_ into the box. Then click _Submit_. Don't lose the full sitemap URL, though - you'll need it again in a minute.
33. There you go! Google will now periodically scan your sitemap file and add new and changed pages to its queue for scanning.
34. Webmasters spend a lot of time talking about Google, for good reason, but Google isn't the only search engine out there. Let's tell Bing about our site as well. Go to <https://www.bing.com/webmasters> and click _Get Started_.
35. Sign into your Microsoft account or create a new one.
36. Since we have already verified our site and added our sitemap on Google Search Console, we can import the site from there and save some steps. Feel free to do that, but since I want to show you this whole process, I'm going to proceed with manually adding the site.
37. Enter your URL for your homepage and click _Add_.
38. We need to verify our site ownership. _Google Site Kit_ did this automatically for us with Google, but Yoast makes it almost as easy to do with the other search engines. Click _HTML Meta Tag_.
39. Click _Copy_.
40. Return to WordPress and click _Yoast SEO > Settings_ on the _Admin menu_.
41. Click _Site Connections_.
42. Find _Bing_ and click in the box that says _Add verification code_.
43. Paste what you copied and Yoast will automatically strip the HTML tag our and keep just the verification code itself.
44. Click _Save Changes_.
45. Return to Bing and click _Verify_.
46. Hopefully, you got the success message! Click _Done_.
47. You'll be taken to your site's profile in _Bing Webmaster Tools_. As always, I encourage you to explore on your own. We're just going to do one more thing, though: click _Sitemaps_.
48. Click _Submit Sitemap_.
49. Paste the full URL of the sitemap index into the box.
50. Click _Submit_.

Well, we have covered a lot so far! There is so much more... In the next tutorial, we'll dig more into Yoast's settings and then look at how Yoast helps you with each page and post.
