---
layout: default
title: "14.3 Search Engine Optimization, Part 3"
published: true
---

# 14.3 Search Engine Optimization, Part 3

So far we have been focusing on technical SEO. In this tutorial, we will look at how _Yoast SEO_ helps us with on-site SEO.

1. In the _Admin menu_, click _Yoast SEO > Settings_.
2. Click _Site Basics_.
3. As you can see, there are several settings here. One of the ways that Yoast helps you is by adjusting your titles and meta tags and it optionally provides breadcrumbs as well. The settings here impact what Yoast includes in those places. The _Title separator_ is purely aesthetic and is placed between the components of the title tag, which would usually be the site's name and the page name.
4. As noted, the _Site image_ is used as a fallback in case you haven't set a featured image for a post or page. This won't appear as a featured image but will be used in certain meta tags that Yoast includes in the page's head section. Our logo would be a good choice as would a photo of our building, or some other image that stands out and uniquely identifies the company. Unfortunately, our logo's resolution is inadequate (which I would totally grumble to myself about if a client said that to me!), so let's use the image from our home page.
5. You can also choose here to enable authors to have full access to all of the Yoast sections in the block editor. This is something you'll want to consider for each site that you build - should only editors and administrators have access to what is in the _Advanced_ and _Schema_ sections or should authors also have access? We'll look at what this is talking about in a few minutes.
6. Click _Save Changes_.
7. Next, let's look at the _Content Types section. Click _Homepage_.
8. Because we have static pages being used as the homepage and blog page, we can adjust the settings that would appear here on those static pages. Click _Posts_.
9. You'll see these same fields appear on each of the content types. Here you can determine if this content type (AKA post type) is indexed by search engines and included in XML sitemaps and then you can set the defaults that will be used for the title and meta tags. Note that you will be able to manually change the defaults for each individual piece of content.
10. The default title tag contains the title of the post or page, a page number if appropriate, the previously-defined separator, followed by the site title. Depending on your site, you might consider adding the primary category to the title tag for posts since that can provide additional contextual keywords. Regarding page numbers, although we haven't tried it, you can actually insert a _Page Break_ block in the block editor to create a single page/post that appears as multiple numbered pages. This is sometimes used for long tutorials where you might want to give people bite-sized pieces on each page of the tutorial. If you are displaying advertisements, such as those provided by _Google AdSense_, you might use this feature to break up your content in order for readers to see more ads.
11. You can also prepopulate the meta description, but this is probably best left to be customized per post.
12. If we scroll past the premium-only social media tag options, we can determine the page and article type that will be included in the _Schema.org_ markup for each post by default. You may want to check out the [article about these fields](https://yoa.st/post-type-schema). We'll keep the defaults.
13. Next you can turn off Yoast's tools and controls in the block editor. We definitely want to keep these on for posts!
14. We didn't make any changes, so there's nothing to save. Click _Show more_ if needed and then click _Cart Orders_.
15. We don't want search engines indexing cart orders! Let's disable _Show cart orders in search results_.
16. Click _Save changes_.
17. Next take a look at _Categories & tags_ section. This section allows us to determine the title and meta tags for each of our taxonomies' archive pages.
18. Click _Categories_ and you'll see similar options to what you saw for the content types. Note the default title tag for categories is the category title followed by the word "Archives" followed by the page number, the separator defined previously, and the site title. For categories and other hierarchical taxonomies, you might consider replacing the _Term title_ with the _Term hierarchy_, which will include the titles for the parent terms as well as the current term. Let's do that and then we'll look at how that impacts the archive title in the next tutorial. Remove _Term title_ from the _SEO title_ box and then click _Insert variable_ and choose _Term hierarchy_.
19. Under _Additional settings_, you can choose to disable Yoast's tools and controls on the taxonomy, but we won't do that. For the categories, you can also choose to remove the category prefix, which we talked about weeks ago when we were first learning about categories. Let's leave that as-is.
20. Click _Save changes_.
21. Expand the _Advanced_ section.
22. Click _Crawl optimization_.
23. There is a lot here! We're not going to go through it all, but I encourage you to [learn more about the Crawl Optimization settings using the link provided](https://yoa.st/crawl-settings). In a nutshell, this page allows us to remove from the head section and HTTP headers of our pages things that are not providing value, which reduces bandwidth (potentially speeding up the site slightly) and, probably more importantly, stops suggesting to search engine bots that they need to scan all of these additional URLs. For example, if you aren't doing anything with comment feeds, then you probably don't need to include them in the head section. Let's enable _Remove global comment feeds_.
24. Also, there's little to be gained by telling other devices the versions of PHP and WordPress that you are using and disabling these details may improve security a tiny bit, so let's enable _Remove generator tag_ and _Remove powered by HTTP header_.
25. That's all that we'll do here for now, so let's click _Save changes_.
26. Click _Breadcrumbs_.
27. Breadcrumbs are links that help people to navigate your site structure. Google sometimes uses breadcrumbs to provide context within search results pages as well. Enabling them via Yoast is a two-step process: first we configure them here and then we add the _Yoast Breadcrumbs_ block to individual pages and posts or to templates. I encourage you to [read more about breadcrumbs and their value](https://yoa.st/header-breadcrumbs) using the link displayed here. Let's scroll down and enable _Show blog page in breadcrumbs_ and _Bold the last page_.
28. Choose _Categories_ for the breadcrumbs for _Posts_.
29. Click _Save Changes_.
30. In a moment we'll add the breadcrumbs to our templates, but first let's quickly look over the rest of the settings. _Author archives_, _Date archives_, and _Format archives_ recommend that you turn off these types of archive pages but provide the typical options if you want to keep them. We are using author archives since we have multiple authors, but if you don't have multiple authors, turning off this archive type is a good idea for the reasons stated. Let's turn off _Date archives_ and _Format archives_ and then click _Save Changes_.
31. Media pages are disabled by default. You could enable them here, but for the reasons explained we will leave them off.
32. The _RSS_ page allows us to specify content that will be added to the RSS feeds. We'll leave it as-is.
33. Let's add the breadcrumbs to our templates. Go to _Appearance > Editor_.
34. Click _Templates_ and then _Single Posts_.
35. Click _Edit_.
36. Click the _Date_ block and then click _Options_ and _Add before_.
37. Type a slash and search for _Yoast_, then click _Yoast Breadcrumbs_ when it appears.
38. Save the changes to the template and then click the WordPress icon and navigate back to the _Templates_ list.
39. Click _Pages_.
40. Click _Edit_.
41. Click the _Content_ block, click _Options_, and click _Add before_.
42. We want the breadcrumbs to appear aligned with the content block, which we can do by placing the breadcrumbs block within a group block. Type a slash and search for _Group_ and then choose the default type.
43. Click the _Add block_ button and add a _Yoast Breadcrumbs_ block inside the group block.
44. Click _Save_.

Now let's see how the breadcrumbs look both on a page and on a post.

We're almost done talking about _Yoast SEO_. In the next tutorial, we will use the tools that Yoast provides on each piece of content and each taxonomy entry.
