---
layout: default
title: "14.4 Search Engine Optimization, Part 4"
published: true
---

# 14.4 Search Engine Optimization, Part 4

Let's finish up discussing how _Yoast SEO_ helps with on-site SEO.

1. Go to _Posts > Categories_ on the _Admin menu_.
2. Edit the _Super Mario Kart Family Fun Night_ category.
3. Scroll down to the _Yoast SEO_ box.
4. This gives us some tools to make adjustments to improve our SEO for this category's archive page. As always, I encourage you to explore the information provided by Yoast, such as the help for the _Focus keyphrase_. Let's type _super mario kart family competition_ in the focus keyphrase and see what happens.
5. We can see a preview of how our category archive page will appear in Google's mobile and desktop search results pages. Do you recall that we changed _Term title_ to _Term hierarchy_ in the _SEO title_ field for categories. As a result, we see _Competition Results - Super Mario Kart Family Fun Night_ in the _SEO title_ here. Otherwise, it would have just said _Super Mario Kart Family Fun Night_.
6. We can modify the SEO title, modify the slug, and add a meta description here. Let's use the category description as the meta description by copying it from above and pasting it into the _Meta description_ field.
7. Take a look at the _SEO analysis_. There are various suggestions here. Note that each suggestion includes a link to more information, which is so helpful! One problem is that the keyphrase is not in the meta description. Let's fix that by changing the meta description to _See the results of our weekly Super Mario Kart family competition, then join us each week for Super Mario Kart Family Fun Night!_
8. Another problem is that the keyphrase doesn't appear in the introduction. I wasn't sure what that meant, but it is referring to the category description. Since our theme doesn't display this, I'm not worried about it; however, we might as well take the meta description that we just wrote and use the same thing in the category description to get rid of this problem.
9. Next up, the title includes all of the words in the keyphrase, but not the exact keyphrase. Let's change the title to _Super Mario Kart Family Competition Results Archive_ followed by the page, separator, and site title.
10. Another suggested improvement is that the text length is too short. Since the text that Yoast is looking at is the description text that doesn't even appear on the site, that's not helpful. We know that the excerpts from the blog posts will appear on the archive page, so that will quickly become more than 30 words.
11. We won't cover the _Cornerstone content_ or _Advanced_ sections, but there is some good stuff there that is worth learning more about when you have time.
12. Also, take a look at _Readability_ and _Social_. _Readability_ helps you improve your on-site SEO by improving the readability of your text. _Social_ helps you adjust the meta tags that social media sites use to display a preview of the archive page when people share the link.
13. Click _Update_.
14. Now let's go to _Posts_ on the _Admin menu_ and edit our opening weekend post.
15. If you scroll down to the bottom of the post, you'll find a _Yoast SEO_ box. As with the taxonomies, to take advantage of Yoast's tools, you'll want to add a _Focus keyphrase_ to each page, post, and each other piece of content. You'll then want to review the recommendations and linked information for both the _SEO_ and _Readability_ tabs, making adjustments as needed. Note that the _Schema_ tab allows us to override the default _Schema.org_ markup types for each piece of content. You'll then want to complete the _Social_ tab, which is identical to what we already saw on the categories.
16. There are a few places where you can see the current _SEO_ and _Readability_ ratings, helping to remind you to fix issues before publishing your content.

Let's take a look at one more tool from Yoast SEO. Sometimes you might want to make adjustments to the SEO for a piece of content, or for many pieces of content, without changing the content itself. Yoast's _Bulk editor_ tool allows you to do this for the _SEO title_ and _Meta description_. You'll find it by going to _Yoast SEO > Tools_ on the _Admin menu_ and then clicking _Bulk editor_. This allows you to quickly edit the SEO title and meta description for any piece of content without having to open it up and edit it directly.

While Yoast SEO is a great tool for helping you optimize your content for search engines, it's important to remember that the most important thing is to create content that is useful and engaging for your audience. If you do that, then people will want to visit and revisit your site and also share it with others, which contributes to better search engine rankings. That being said, Yoast SEO can help you make sure that your content is as optimized as possible so that it has the best chance of being found by people who are looking for what you offer.

Before we finish up, I'd like to address one more thing that doesn't directly relate to Yoast SEO but is still important for on-site SEO as well as for accessibility. That is the use of _alt text_ for images. When you add an image to a post or page, you have the option to add _alternative text_ (often abbreviated as "alt text"), which is a description of the image that is used by screen readers for accessibility and also by search engines to understand what the image is about. This appears both in the _Block_ pane and in the _Media Library_. It's important to use descriptive alt text that accurately describes the image, as this can help improve your SEO and also make your site more accessible to people with disabilities. [Harvard's Digital Accessibility Services has a helpful guide on this topic](https://accessibility.huit.harvard.edu/describe-content-images). In general, you should aim to provide alt text for all of your images, and the alt text should be descriptive enough to give someone who can't see the image a good understanding of what it is. For example, if you have an image of a group of people playing Super Mario Kart, a good alt text might be "A group of people sitting around a TV playing Super Mario Kart". This gives a clear description of the image and also includes relevant keywords that can help with SEO.

Well, that is it for our discussion of _Yoast SEO_, which wraps up our discussion of on-site SEO; however, next we're going to explore various other optimizations that contribute to technical SEO.
