---
layout: default
title: "14.5 PageSpeed Insights"
published: true
---

# 14.5 PageSpeed Insights

A big factor of SEO today is how your Web site performs. A site that contains excellent information that is in high demand can still rank poorly if it loads slowly, is hard to render on some devices, or isn't mobile-friendly. We've already taken care of mobile-friendliness when we discussed _responsive design_, but just because our site is formatted for mobile devices doesn't mean that it will perform well. In fact, I'm sure you've noticed that pages load slowly. That's what we're going to be discussing in this tutorial and we're going to start by looking at our report in _Site Kit_ from _PageSpeed Insights_.

1. On the _Admin menu_, click _Site Kit_.
2. Click _Speed_.
3. Each time we load the _Site Kit Dashboard_, the plugin sends a request to _PageSpeed Insights_, a tool from _Google Developers_, to check our site for mobile and desktop performance. What we see here on the _In the Lab_ tab are a few pieces of data that it gathered. We can switch between moblie and desktop statistics and recommendations using the buttons provided.
4. The _In the Field_ tab provides information from real users and we don't have any yet.
5. We can click _How to improve_ to see recommendations within the _Site Kit Dashboard_ or we can click the link to _PageSpeed Insights_ to see the full report, which includes a lot more details and ratings on _Performance_, _Accessibility_, _Best Practices_, and _SEO_. The information that we see here relates to the specific page, but fortunately many of the recommendations will improve most pages on our site.
6. For now, let's focus on the _How to improve_ tab. Not only is this more succinct, but it provides recommendations that are specific to WordPress.
7. For example, the first recommendation is to serve images in next-gen formats such as WebP. This can be done by installing _Performance Lab_, a plugin by the _WordPress Performance Team_. Let's do that!
8. Find _Plugins_ on the _Admin menu_ and Control-click _Add New Plugin_ so that we don't lose the list of recommendations.
9. Search for _Performance Lab_ and install and activate the plugin.
10. Click _Settings_ to load the _Settings_ page with the new plugin active and then click _Performance_ under _Settings_.
11. _Performance Lab_ includes features that improve performance and that will likely become part of _WordPress Core_ eventually. They are being shared with the community for further testing. There are several features here that might help us. Let's activate _Image Placeholders_, _Speculative Loading_, and _Modern Image Formats_.
12. Let's click around on the site.
13. Unfortunately, I discovered that the _Modern Image Formats_ plugin can't do its thing because of the issue with resizing images that we are still experiencing. I can't tell if _Image Placeholders_ is working, but _Speculative Loading_ definitely is. Let's do a test, although this will only work on a recent Chromium-based browser, such as the latest version of Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge. Quickly move your mouse to a link on the navigation bar and click - don't hesitate! You shouldn't notice much difference in load time. Now, position your mouse over another link on the navigation bar, pause, and click. The page should load nearly instantly! That's speculative loading - when your mouse hovered over the link, your browser started loading the page in the background so that it was ready to display when you actually clicked. If you hadn't clicked, it would eventually just throw out the cached page. Once that is supported by more browsers, it will be really nice. Fortunately, though, it doesn't impact older unsupported browsers in any way - the speculative loading rules just get ignored since the browser doesn't know what to do with them and the links work as usual.
14. Let's return to the _PageSpeed Insights_ recommendations.
15. When it comes to eliminating render-blocking resources and reducing initial server response time, there are many plugins that can help. _WPMU DEV_ has one called _Hummingbird_, _Automattic_ has _Jetpack Boost_, and there are a bunch of others. One of the oldest and most respected plugins in that space, though, is called _W3 Total Cache_. Let's install it and see what happens!
16. On the _Admin menu_, click _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
17. Search for _W3 Total Cache_ and install and activate the plugin by _BoldGrid_.
18. Woah! We have notifications! _BPS_ and _wpForo_ both have things that we need to do. Before we follow their suggestions, though, we need to complete the _W3 Total Cache_ setup process. Click _Performance_ on the _Admin menu_.
19. Click _Accept_ or _Decline_ - it's up to you - to allow W3 Total Cache to collect data or not.
20. Click _Next_.
21. Click _Test Page Cache_.
22. Well, um, this isn't great. Note that some servers have other technologies available. A big part of the value of using a WordPress-specific Web host is the caching tools that they provide. Based on the test, _Disk: Basic_ is the best for us, but it's not a huge improvement. That's okay - click _Disk Basic_ and click _Next_.
23. Click _Test Database Cache_.
24. The tool recommends leaving this off, but it shows an improvement if we turn on disk-based caching. Let's leave it off for now - we can turn it on later if we want. Click _Next_.
25. Click _Test Object Cache_.
26. Disk-based caching provides a huge boost for the object cache. Choose and and click _Next_.
27. Click _Test Browser Cache_.
28. Click _Enabled_ and click _Next_.
29. Check _Enable WebP Converter_ and click _Next_.
30. Check _Lazy Load Images_ and click _Next_.
31. You can read a summary of what we have done. Click _Dashboard_.
32. Even more notifications! Yikes! Time to explore these. The first one is from W3 Total Cache about the WebP converter that we installed. Ignore that for now.
33. Next, we have something from Yoast. Enable that option and see what happens.
34. Next, take a look at the message from _wpForo_. Copy the list of paths and then go to _Performance > Page Cache_.
35. Click _Advanced_.
36. Add the paths to the _Never cache the following pages_ box.
37. Click _Save Settings_.
38. Click _Empty All Caches_.
39. Click the _X_ on the _wpForo_ notification.
40. The BPS notification contains information that doesn't apply to us, but we do need to rerun the BPS Setup Wizard by clicking that link in the notification.
41. Click _Setup Wizard_ and then _OK_.
42. Look in the _AutoFix_ section of the log for _W3 Total Cache_ to confirm that it was successfully set up.

By default, _W3 Total Cache_ doesn't work for logged-in users, so let's test it using a different browser or an incognito window. You should notice a slight improvement in the speed of loading pages.

We've cover a lot of ground this week, so I'm not going to do the deep dive into optimization that we did into SEO. I want to go over a few things, though:

1. If you go to _Performance > General Settings_, you can turn on or off portions of _W3 Total Cache_. _Minify_ is one feature that is worth exploring to speed up your site, but it takes a lot of trial and error. Depending on your theme and plugins, it may or may not work for you. Even if it does work, you may find that you can only minify HTML or JS or CSS but not all three.
2. For each type of cache, you will find many additional options that you might want to try.
3. Using a CDN can help as it delivers your static files from servers that are regionally closer to the end users.
4. OpCache can make a big difference if it's available on your server.
5. If you go to _Media_, you can convert images to WebP one by one or in bulk.
6. If you go to _Pages_ or _Posts_, you can purge specific pages and posts from the cache so that they get reloaded - useful if you make a change and it's not being reflected on your site.
7. The _Performance_ menu on the _Admin bar_ allows you to easily purge all caches.
