# Theme Customization

We're going to pick up where we left off in the last video and do some customizations to our site's home page. If you have logged out, take a moment to log back in to WordPress and then go to your home page.

1. Click the _Edit Site_ button on the _Admin Bar_.
2. Click the _Edit_ button next to _Front Page_.
3. Click the text "For Every Event" and replace it with our tag line, "Escape to geekdom."
4. The section at the top of the page with the words "World Largest Designer Conference" is referred to as the _hero section_. It appears _above the fold_, that is before scrolling down, and is meant to capture attention. Although we may find ourselves changing this later, let's do some tweaks now and see how we like them. Change "World Largest Designer Conference" to "A place for geeks to be geeks."
5. If we take a look at the storyboard for our site and focus on the home page, we will find a paragraph that reads "Get ready for the ultimate vacation destination designed exclusively for computer geeks. Geekaway is a haven for tech enthusiasts, offering a unique blend of cutting-edge technology, immersive experiences, and a vibrant community of like-minded individuals." Let's put that below the heading that we just entered, replacing the text that begins with "Join us for an inspiring journey..." We will almost certainly tweak or maybe completely change the wording in the future, but we can use it as a placeholder for now.
6. Let's change "Get your tickets now" to "Book Now!"
7. Click on the pinpoint and then click the _Select Group_ button to select the entire block containing the location. Then press _Delete_ on your keyboard to remove it.
8. Repeat the same for the date block.
9. Next, change the "Buy Ticket" button on the navigation bar to read "Book Now." Although that may seem redundant on the home page, the navigation bar appears across the site. Plus, you can never have too many "Book Now" buttons. :)
10. Scroll down to the "About Event" heading and replace it with "Discover the Geekaway Difference," which comes from the storyboard.
11. Then replace the sentences below that heading with the remaining text from home page on the storyboard: "At Geekaway, we understand that computer geeks have unique interests and passions. That's why we've curated a range of activities and accommodations tailored specifically to cater to your tech-savvy needs. Whether you're a coding wizard, a gaming aficionado, or a hardware enthusiast, Geekaway has something for everyone."
12. Use the _Options_ button to delete the second paragraph.
13. The "News" section contains the latest blog posts and we can currently see the initial blog post that was created when WordPress was installed. We're not going to change this for now, although we might in the future. For now, I want to bring your attention to how this is created. If you click the image placeholder, you will see that it is a _Featured Image_ block. This block displays the featured image from a post. As we'll discuss more next week, WordPress sites are primarily made up of posts and pages. Pages, like the front page, are 
14. As you scroll down, there are several more sections here. We'll likely repurpose some of these for other things and delete others.
15. Click _Save_.
16. A confirmation appears noting that you are going to save changes to the Front Page Template and the Header Template Part. Note that you could choose to save the changes for only one of those using the checkboxes. Templates describe how an entire page appears. Template Parts describe how a small part of a page appears and can be used within Templates so that multiple templates can have consistency among those parts. Click _Save_ again to confirm.

Before we finish this tutorial, I want to share a little about the Front Page template. The Front Page template is a standard template that, if it exists in the theme, takes precedence over all other templates for the home page. Remember that WordPress started its life as a blogging platform. By default, WordPress shows your most recent posts in reverse chronological order on the front page of your site, which is typical for blogs. Under Settings > Reading, you can choose to instead display a static page as the home page of your site. Notice that we haven't done that. When the theme includes a Front Page template, that takes precedence and displays as the home page, which is what is happening with our site. You can learn more at <https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/functionality/custom-front-page-templates/>.
