---
layout: default
title: "4.2 Child Themes"
---

# 4.2 Child Themes

Child themes are extensions of a parent theme, allowing you to make modifications to the parent theme without changing that existing theme's code. Among other benefits, this allows the parent theme to be updated without losing the changes that you made in the child theme. Before the introduction of child themes, many people would modify existing themes directly, which meant that if the theme was updated they had to either reapply the modifications or go without updating, neither of which is ideal.

Many years ago, child themes were much more common than they are today. Improvements such as the _Customizer_ tool and now _Full Site Editing_ have removed the need for child themes for many situations. Still, there are sometimes situations where they are still needed. If you have a theme that you like but want to make modifications or extensions to that theme that cannot be done through plugins, full site editing, the _Customizer_, or another means, then a child theme might be the solution. Changes to Javascript or PHP code are good examples of changes that would require a child theme.

Child themes are also a good way to get into theme development, since you don't need to build an entire theme from scratch.

Unfortunately, a child theme does not bring with it the customizations made to a parent theme using the _Full Site Editor_, so if you switch to using a child theme after customizing the parent theme, you lose the changes that you have made. We're not going to be doing much with child themes in this course, but I want to at least introduce the concept and show you how to create a basic child theme.

To get started, click _Site Folder_ in Local, navigate to _app\public\wp-content\themes_ and create a new folder called "geekaway."

Inside the new folder, create a file named style.css. WordPress uses the style.css file to store certain information about the theme in what is referred to as the file header, a block comment that appears at the top of the file. Inside the style.css file, type the following:

```css
/**
 * Theme Name:        Geekaway
 * Template:          kaaryam
 */
```

There are numerous other fields, but those two are the only ones required for a child theme that will not be submitted to the WordPress theme directory. The theme name is what you are calling the theme and will appear in the list of themes. The template is the folder name of the parent theme. Since we are building this off of the Kaaryam theme and the Kaaryam theme is in the /wp-content/themes/kaaryam/ folder, we must place kaaryam in the template field. Note that the parent theme must be installed for the child theme to work.

Technically, that's all that you need to create a child theme. You can actually activate the theme at this point.

Let's do that. Go to your tutorial site's _Admin area_ and go to Appearance and you should see the Geekaway theme is installed and ready to activate. Notice that it doesn't include a screenshot because we didn't provide one. Activate it and then go to your home page. It works! Except, of course, we don't see anything different because we haven't made any changes yet.

Let's play around with styles a bit. Go back to your style.css file and add a CSS rule to modify the _Admin bar_ by coloring the background red:

```css
#wpadminbar {
    background-color: red;
}
```

Save the file and then perform a hard refresh in your browser. Hmm... Nothing happened...

It turns out that WordPress doesn't automatically load your style.css file. You have to tell it to do that, which you do in a file called functions.php. Now, creating a child theme requires knowing some things about how the parent theme works. The Kaaryam theme could have been set up to automatically load a child theme's style.css file if its developers wanted, but they didn't do that. Instead, we'll have to do that ourselves.

Create a new file and save it as functions.php in the geekaway folder. Inside that file, type:

```php
<?php
add_action( 'wp_enqueue_scripts', 'geekaway_enqueue_styles' );

function geekaway_enqueue_styles() {
	wp_enqueue_style( 
		'geekaway-style', 
		get_stylesheet_uri()
	);
}
```

WordPress uses actions to perform tasks at certain times in WordPress's runtime. This code creates a new function that will add our style sheet to the style queue when scripts and styles are being enqueued. We prefix our function name with the folder name of our theme to ensure that no other functions loaded by WordPress have the same name. "geekaway-style" is a name that we came up with to describe our stylesheet and get_stylesheet_uri() is a function that returns the URL for our theme's style.css file.

Save the file and refresh your browser. Horray! You should now see the red Admin Bar.

So, getting started with a child theme is fairly straightforward. From here, you can add additional CSS rules to style.css to modify the appearance of the parent theme. You can also create template files to override specific templates from the parent theme and can even create new template parts and templates that don't exist in the parent theme. Templates describe how an entire page appears. Template Parts describe how a small part of a page appears and can be used within Templates so that multiple templates can have consistency among those parts. We'll be discussing templates and template parts more in future lessons.

The WP CLI (Wordpress Command Line Interface) includes a command to create a child theme, which is handy if you are comfortable using the command line. The command is:

```
wp scaffold child-theme <child-theme-slug> --parent_theme=<parent-theme-slug>
```

Where `<child-theme-slug>` is the folder name of your child theme and `<parent-theme-slug>` is the folder name of the parent theme. This command creates the child theme folder and adds a style.css file and a functions.php file that enqueues the stylesheet, just like we did manually.

Let's delete the geekaway folder that we created manually and use the WP CLI to create it instead. Start by switching back to any theme other than Geekaway in the WordPress Admin Area. Then delete the geekaway folder in wp-content/themes. Finally, go to Local and click _Site Shell_ and type the following command in the terminal window that appears:

```
wp scaffold child-theme geekaway --parent_theme=kaaryam
```

This creates the geekaway folder with the two files that we created manually plus a file that tells code editors how to format the files in the folder. Take a look at the files and notice that the CLI tool set things up a bit differently but it's basically doing the same thing. Paste the CSS from before into the style.css file. Now, go back to the WordPress Admin Area and activate the Geekaway theme again. You should see the same red Admin Bar as before.

This is just barely scratching the surface of creating child themes. I've provided some resource links for more information about creating child themes, so I encourage you to take a look and learn more. If you chose a classic theme for your portfolio site, you may find yourself needing to create a child theme to do things like adding a logo to your navigation bar or creating a custom home page (hint: a custom home page would be created using a template called front-page, which means that for a classic theme it would be called front-page.php and placed in the same folder as your style.css file).

## Resources

- <https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/advanced-topics/child-themes/>
- <https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/core-concepts/main-stylesheet/>
- <https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/templates/>
- <https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/functionality/custom-front-page-templates/>
- <https://fullsiteediting.com/lessons/child-themes/>
