---
layout: default
title: "4.4 Plugins"
---

# 4.4 Plugins

While WordPress Themes are used to change how your site looks, WordPress Plugins enable us to add or modify the functionality of WordPress. We will be using many plugins over the remainder of this course. In this video, we'll take a look at the process of finding, installing, updating, and removing plugins.

1. Use the WP Admin button in Local to go to the Wordpress Admin Area.
2. If necessary, log in using the username and password you created in the _Install WordPress_ tutorial.
3. You will be taken to the _Dashboard_, part of the WordPress _Admin Area_. Click _Plugins_ on the _Admin Menu_ to go to the _Installed Plugins_ page.
4. Listed here are all of the plugins that are currently installed, which is zero! This is a recent change for security reasons - in the past, WordPress came with two plugins installed by default: _Akismet Anti-Spam_ and _Hello Dolly_. Now, no plugins are installed by default. Let's install _Hello Dolly_ to see how the installation process works.
5. Click _Add Plugin_.
6. You are taken to the _Add Plugins_ page, which provides access to the [_WordPress Plugins directory_](https://wordpress.org/plugins/), a large repository of freely-available open source plugins for WordPress, including two-click installation and activation of any plugin that you find. Additionally, if you have acquired a plugin from another source, you have an _Upload Plugin_ button.
7. In the search box, type "hello dolly" and press Enter.
8. The _Hello Dolly_ plugin should be the first result. Click the button to _Install Now_.
9. The lightbox goes away and we can see the _Installing_ message briefly and then the _Activate_ button appears. At this point, the .zip file has been downloaded and unzipped. Let's activate it by clicking the _Activate_ button.
10. We are returned to the _Installed Plugins_ page where we can see that the plugin is installed and active.
11. Notice that _Hello Dolly_ now appears on the _Admin Menu_ under _Plugins_.
12. Let's deactivate and delete the plugin to see how that works.
13. Click the _Deactivate_ link under _Hello Dolly_ to deactivate it.
14. We are returned to the _Installed Plugins_ page where we can see that the plugin is now inactive.
15. Now click _Delete_ under _Hello Dolly_ to delete it.
16. Click _OK_ to confirm.

Let's install a plugin that we'll need shortly:

1. Click _Add New Plugin_.
2. Notice that within the directory, you can see ratings, last update dates, and numbers of installations. You can also see whether or not the plugin has been tested and shown to be compatible with your version of WordPress. Click on the _Jetpack_ plugin to learn more about it.
3. You can read a full description of what the plugin does, find installation instructions, see frequently asked questions, the changelog, screenshots, and reviews. You can also filter the reviews to certain ratings. There are also links to the plugin's detail page on WordPress.org and to the plugin's own Web site. The author of the plugin as well as a list of contributors are also shown along with compatibility information. We're not going to install Jetpack, at least for now, so click the X.
4. In the search box, type "bps" and press Enter.
5. Scroll through the results until you find _BulletProof Security_. Notice it has many active installations, many reviews, a 5-star rating based on many reviews, was last updated recently, and is compatible with our version of WordPress. We could click the button to _Install Now_ but let's take a look at the changelog. Although you can't see how often it is updated, you can see that they are fixing bugs and adding new features, which is a good sign. Click the button to _Install Now_.
6. The lightbox goes away and we can see the _Installing_ message briefly and then the _Activate_ button appears. At this point, the .zip file has been downloaded and unzipped. Let's activate it by clicking the _Activate_ button.
7. We are returned to the _Installed Plugins_ page where we can see that the plugin is installed and active.
8. Notice that _BPS Security_ now appears on the _Admin Menu_, there is a _BPS Setup Wizard_ notification at the top of the screen, and we see some new links within the _BulletProof Security_ row in the list of installed plugins. New menu items, notifications with the _Admin Area_, and links within the plugin list are just a few of the things that plugins can add.

Over time, the plugins that you have installed will receive updates that must be installed. There are a few ways to install plugin updates. One is to click the _update now_ link that appears in the plugin description when one is available. You can also click the _View version X details_ link to see the changelog and then click _Install Update Now_ to install the update. You can install all available updates for all installed plugins by clicking the _Update Available_ filter at the top, clicking the _Select All_ checkbox to select all plugins shown, choose _Update_ under _Bulk Actions_, and click _Apply_. Of course, you can also enable automatic updates using the _Enable auto-updates_ link next to a plugin. Although automatically installing updates improves security, there is a chance that an update will break something. Consequently, if you are going to enable automatic updates (which you should), make sure that you have frequent automatic backups as well. Also, the ideal situation is to have a workflow in place where you can take a snapshot of your WordPress site and move it into a _staging_ environment, install the update there, and then either replace your main site with the updated copy or install the plugin on your live site once you know it won't break anything. Of course, whatever you do, if you don't automatically install updates, you need to check for updates very often and install them soon after they are available. We are not going to install this update right now, because I'm going to show you another way to monitor for and install all types of WordPress updates in another of this week's tutorial videos.

Before we go, take a look at the options to filter the plugins list and the various bulk actions that are available. To use a bulk action, you can either use the _Select All_ checkbox or check individual boxes and then choose the bulk action from the drop-down and click _Apply_.

In the next video, we are going to talk more about securing WordPress and complete the setup wizard for _BulletProof Security_.
