---
layout: default
title: "4.6 Site Health"
---

# 4.6 Site Health

The WordPress Site Health screen provides a convenient way to check the health of your WordPress site and to get recommendations for improving the performance and security of your site. It also provides detailed information about your WordPress installation that can be helpful when troubleshooting issues with your site.

1. Use the WP Admin button in Local to go to the Wordpress Admin Area.
2. If necessary, log in using the username and password you created in the _Install WordPress_ tutorial.
3. You will be taken to the _Dashboard_, part of the WordPress _Admin Area_. Notice the _Site Health Status_ on the dashboard. It indicates that our site has critical issues that should be addressed. You can access the _Site Health_ screen by clicking the link here or by going to _Tools > Site Health_ on the _Admin Menu_.
4. There are two tabs. The _Status_ tab indicates issues that we should address. Notice that WordPress updates are listed here as _Security_ issues with a link to install the update. We're going to install that in the next video.
5. Missing required and recommended PHP modules are listed here as _Performance_ issues. This is something that you would usually need to work with your Web host to correct, although in some cases it might be as simple as enabling the module within your Web hosting control panel. If you were the server administrator, the fix might be as simple as running a command to enable the module or as complex as recompiling PHP with the module enabled.
6. There are also 4 recommended improvements. The first is that you have inactive plugins that should be removed and that is listed as a _Security_ issue. Because of the way plugins work, it is possible for an attacker to gain access to your site through a vulnerable plugin even if that plugin is inactive in some cases. Consequently, you should delete plugins that you aren't actively using, whether they are active or inactive, updated or not. If we click _Manage inactive plugins_, we'll see that the only one that is inactive is _Akismet_, which we will use in a few weeks, so let's leave it for now. It's also not updated, but we'll take care of that shortly.
7. The second recommended improvement is that you have inactive themes. The reasonining here is the same as for plugins - every theme that you have installed is a potential target for hackers, even if it isn't enabled. Click _Manage your themes_. Currently, the only themes that are installed and inactive are the ones that came with WordPress. It is best practice to leave the default theme for your current WordPress version, which in our case is the _Twenty Twenty-Four_ theme, in case something goes wrong with your active theme. WordPress is able to switch to the default if something goes wrong with your active one, but only if it is installed. Of course, you need to ensure that the default theme stays updated. We should delete the other two, though. To do that, click the _Theme Details_ and then click _Delete_.
8. The next recommended improvement is that the SQL server is outdated and this is a _Performance_ issue. That's something that your Web host would need to address, but it's minor. We're not going to worry about it for now.
9. The final suggestion is that a page cache is not detected, but it's not an issue because server response time is within the recommended threshold. As you build your WordPress site, and particularly as you install more plugins, you may find that it slows down. Page caching is used to speed up your site by reducing how often individual pages need to be produced by WordPress. You can click the link to learn more about page caching. We're going to talk more about it when we discuss _Optimization_ later in the semester.
10. You can also see the tests that were passed. It is a good idea to review this page periodically and investigate recommendations to improve the performance and security of your site.
11. If you see any failed tests that we haven't discussed, please let me know! I'd love to help you fix the issue and share what we learn with the class, if appropriate.
12. The _Info_ tab provides detailed information about your WordPress installation. This can be handy to share with technical support personnel, theme and plugin developers, and with other people who are helping you with your WordPress site. There is a button to copy all of the information to your clipboard so that you can paste it into an email or document.

In the next video, we'll look at a WordPress page that makes it easy to install all types of updates.
