---
layout: default
title: "4.7 Updates"
---

# 4.7 Updates

WordPress, themes, and plugins all receive updates that should be installed as soon as possible. In this video, we'll look at how to monitor for and install updates.

1. Use the WP Admin button in Local to go to the Wordpress Admin Area.
2. If necessary, log in using the username and password you created in the _Install WordPress_ tutorial.
3. You will be taken to the _Dashboard_, part of the WordPress _Admin Area_. Look in the _Admin Menu_ on the left side of your screen and find the _Updates_ item, in the _Dashboard_ group. There will likely be a red circle containing a number next to _Updates_ that indicates how many updates need to be installed. Click _Updates_.
4. You may see a message that there is an updated version of WordPress available. If so, you can click the button to install the update after performing a backup. Or, if the page says that automatic updates are enabled and the update will be installed in a period of time, you can let the automatic update complete. You should also see a message that the site is kept automatically up to date, which is an excellent security feature but can cause problems in a production scenario. Click _Switch to automatic updates for maintenance and security releases only_. This will reduce the number of breaking changes introduced by automatic updates. Once you've clicked that, major updates will need to be manually installed. You would want to perform a backup, ideally test the update on a staging copy of your site, and then install the update on your production site once you've worked out any issues that you find.
5. I'm going to demonstrate what it looks like to manually install a WordPress update from this page. If you have an update to install and want to follow along, be sure to pause the video and backup your site first.
6. Next, scroll down to the _Plugins_ section, where you will likely find a list of plugins needing updates. It will indicate the plugin that needs to be updated along with the compatibility with the current version of WordPress.
7. Check the box next to each plugin on the list.
8. Click _Update Plugins_.
9. You should see a confirmation message that each update was installed successfully. You can use each of the _Show Details_ links to see more information about the update process.
10. Click _Go to WordPress Updates page_ to return to the previous page.
11. Scroll down to the _Themes_ section, where you will likely see a message that all themes are up to date. If there were updates to install, you would follow a similar process to that of updating plugins.
12. It is important that you regularly check WordPress for updates and install them in order to keep your site secure. It is also important that you perform a backup before installing updates so that you can restore from the backup if something goes wrong during the update process.
