---
layout: default
title: "11.1 Image Galleries, Part 1"
published: true
---

# 11.1 Image Galleries, Part 1

As the saying goes, a picture says a thousand words. In that case, how many words does an entire photo gallery say? In this tutorial, we are going to look at the built-in WordPress Gallery block, which is a great feature. In the next tutorial, we will take a look at a plugin that offers some additional functionality.

1. In the _Admin menu_, click _Pages_.
2. Find the _Accommodations_ page and click _Edit_.
3. Add a block below the description of _Tech-Themed Hotels_.
4. Select a _Gallery_ block.
5. Click _Media Library_.
6. Use _Instant Images_ to add some photos that appear to be hotel rooms and hotel amenities to your _Media Library_.
7. Click each of the photos that you added to select them.
8. Click _Create a new gallery_.
9. Note that you can rearrange the photos by dragging and dropping them and you can adjust the photo information by clicking the photo and updating the _Attachment Details_ (this changes not just how the photo appears in the gallery but also the information that is stored in the _Media Library_). You can also add additional photos by clicking _Add to gallery_.
10. Click _Insert Gallery_.
11. Note that a _Gallery_ block is just a collection of _Image_ blocks with some extra styling in place. You can do pretty much anything to the images that you could do to any other image, such as applying filters, cropping, turning captions on/off, replacing the image, etc. If you click individual photos, you can add links to them, make other adjustments, and even make the photos expand when clicked. You cannot add a link _and_ make the photo expand on click, though, for obvious reasons. Click each of the photos and toggle _Expand on click_ to the _On_ position.
12. Click _Update_.
13. Click _View Page_.

Now if we scroll down on the page, we can see the gallery. Clicking an individual photo causes the large version to open as an overlay on the page, referred to as a _lightbox_. There is a close button but clicking anywhere on or off the photo closes it as well.

WordPress galleries are very light-weight, meaning they don't add a lot of overhead to page loading. They also don't have a ton of options, though, so many people opt to create photo galleries using a plugin. We'll take a look at one example plugin that you might use in the next tutorial.
