---
layout: default
title: "11.2 Image Galleries, Part 2"
published: true
---

# 11.2 Image Galleries, Part 2

If you want to add an image gallery to your WordPress site and need more functionality than the _Gallery_ block provides then, as you probably could have guessed, there's a plugin for that! Lots of them, in fact.

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _Portfolio Gallery_ and install and activate the plugin that shows up as _Portfolio Gallery – Image Gallery Plugin_ by _A WP Life_.
3. Click _Portfolio Gallery_ on the _Admin menu_.
4. This plugin allows you to set up filters on the photo gallery. Click the _Filters_ item on the _Admin menu_ below _Portfolio Gallery_.
5. Click _Add New Category_, type _rooms_ and click _Add Category_.
6. Click _Add New Category_, type _amenities_ and click _Add Category_.
7. Click _Add New Gallery_.
8. Type _Our Hostel Accommodations_ in the _Add title_ box.
9. Click _Add/Upload Items_.
10. Use _Instant Images_ to find some photos that look like a hostel.
11. Choose one of the photos that you imported and click _Select_.
12. Repeat the process of clicking _Add/Upload Items_, selecting one, and clicking _Select_ to select all of the photos.
13. Use the select box below each photo to select the proper category for each photo.
14. Optionally, add captions to each photo.
15. Click _Config_ and browse the options available.
16. Check out the options available under _Filters_, _Lightbox_, and _Custom CSS_ as well.
17. Click _Publish_.
18. Copy the shortcode provided.
19. Edit the _Accommodations_ page.
20. Add a _Shortcode_ block below the description under the _Hacker Hostels_ heading.
21. Paste the shortcode that you copied into the _Shortcode_ block.
22. Click _Update_.
23. Click _View Page_.

Take a look at the gallery. You can search and filter images. You can click photos to expand them and display them in a lightbox. When you are viewing the large photo, you can use the arrow buttons that appear after hovering to navigate between photos.

Much more functionality, but I'm not in love with the thumbnail sizes. This may be because we are still having image processing images on the server, but there is a CSS solution to this problem.

In the _Admin area_, click _Appearance > Customize_ on the _Admin menu_, then click _Additional CSS_. Paste the following into the box:

```css
.pfg-bootstrap .img-responsive, .pfg-bootstrap .thumbnail > img {
  object-fit: cover !important;
  width: 211px !important;
  height: 211px !important;
}
```

Click _Publish_. Refresh the _Accommodations_ page and you should now see the photo thumbnails cropped.

Of course, there are tons of other plugins. I encourage you to check out some other image gallery plugins and see what you can find!
