---
layout: default
title: "15.1 WP CLI"
published: false
---

# 15.1 WP CLI

[_WP-CLI_](https://wp-cli.org/), the _WordPress Command-Line Interface_ is an incredibly useful tool for those who are comfortable using a command prompt, such as using SSH. Now, I know that's not everyone, but if it is you, then there is so much power at your fingertips. As we finish up this class, I want to share a little bit about this tool.

Usually, this is a tool that would be installed by your Web host for the use of all of their customers, but it is possible if you have SSH access to a server to download it to your account and use it just for yourself. To do that, you would run this command to download using a tool called _curl_ (also available at <https://wp-cli.org/>):

```
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wp-cli/builds/gh-pages/phar/wp-cli.phar
```

Or perhaps this command to download using _wget_:

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wp-cli/builds/gh-pages/phar/wp-cli.phar
```

Then you can run individual commands using the PHP executable installed by your host. Usually that would look something like this:

```
php wp-cli.phar --info
```

But other times, you will need to specify the path to PHP, such as:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php wp-cli.phar --info
```

If your host has installed the WP-CLI for all users, you should be able to run commands more like this:

```
wp --info
```

By the way, _Local_ includes WP-CLI so that you can use it to manage your _Local_ sites.

For the rest of this tutorial, I'm going to use a copy of the WP-CLI installed for all server users, but I'm going to run it using the copy of PHP that our WordPress sites are using, which is what you should do if you decide to follow along on the CIS Student Server with your Tutorial Site or Portfolio Site. I'm going to run that last command this way:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp --info
```

So, what can you do with the WP-CLI? A better question would be, "what can't you do?" There's a [list of built-in commands](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/), plus [many plugins add WP-CLI commands](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/handbook/references/tools/) and there are additional packages that can be installed to add other functionality to WP-CLI.

Let's look at a few simple commands that might be super useful.

First of all, note that you should log into SSH and navigate to the base folder of the WordPress installation that you want to manage. For example, I am going to type the following to work on my Tutorial Site:

```
cd www/cis338/tutorial
```

Now I can run commands.

What if I want to update all plugins?

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp plugin update --all
```

Or how about if I want to install a plugin, perhaps Akismet?

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp plugin install akismet
```

Of course, I then need to activate that plugin:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp plugin activate akismet
```

Perhaps I finally figured out what has been keeping WordPress from generating thumbnail and other scaled-down versions of image uploads and now I need to tell WordPress to generate (or regenerate) those scaled-down versions:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp media regenerate --yes
```

Or maybe I just want to see a list of all posts on my site:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp post list
```

Or all comments:

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp comment list
```

Or maybe create a new page (hint: I could even include the path to an HTML file in this command to prepopulate the page with the HTML file):

```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp post create --post_type=page --post_title="New Page"
```

There's even [a package called _profile_](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/profile/) that helps you figure out why WordPress is running slow. You can install this package for yourself by running:
```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp package install wp-cli/profile-command
```

Then you could run this command to see an overview for each stage of the load process:
```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp profile stage --fields=stage,time,cache_ratio
```

Hmm... It looks like most of the load time is during the bootstrap stage. According to the [profile command documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/profile/stage/), when WordPress handles a request from a browser, it’s essentially executing as one long PHP script. _wp profile stage_ breaks the script into three stages:

- _bootstrap_ is where WordPress is setting itself up, loading plugins and the main theme, and firing the init hook.
- _main_query_ is how WordPress transforms the request (e.g. /2016/10/21/moms-birthday/) into the primary WP_Query.
- _template_ is where WordPress determines which theme template to render based on the main query, and renders it.

We can dive into hook performance for the _bootstrap_ stage using this command:
```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp profile stage bootstrap --fields=hook,time,cache_ratio --spotlight
```

Remember, hooks are how plugins and themes interact with WordPress Core. Additionally, WordPress Core uses hooks extensively, which makes the code more agile. Let's discuss one example, the [_after_setup_theme_ hook](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/after_setup_theme/). This is an action hook that is called during each page load, once WordPress has finished initializing the theme. If the theme has basic setup tasks to perform, such as modifying the block editor's default color palette, setting the theme up to support translation, or telling WordPress that the theme supports certain optional WordPress features, then the theme could use this hook. Since this is an action hook, it is used to execute code but does not receive nor is it expected to return any data. A filter hook is the other type of hook. These are used to receive, process, and return data. For example, the [_the_content_ hook](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/the_content/) is a filter hook that is used to filter the post content after it is retrieved from the database and before it is sent to the Web browser. One way that this might be used is by a plugin that inserts ads into post content. The plugin could use this hook to receive the post content, which it could then analyze and insert an advertisement after every, say, 3 paragraphs, and then return the modified post content. If you have five different plugins that each use the _the_content_ hook, WordPress will take the original post content and give it to one of them, take the modified post content from that one and give it to another, and so on until all five plugins have had their turn, at which point WordPress sends the modified post content to the browser. Hooks are incredibly powerful.

Back to _WP-CLI_ and the _profile_ package: if we see that one particular hook seems to be taking a lot of time, we might want to dig deeper into it. We can do that with this command, where _init_ is the name of a hook:
```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp profile hook init --spotlight
```

Or we can run that for all hooks using _--all_:
```
/usr/local/php7/bin/php /usr/local/bin/wp profile hook --all --spotlight
```

The _profile_ command is quite technical, but if you're struggling with slow performance, it could be super useful!

Another interesting command is called [_scaffold_](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/scaffold/). If you decide to get into plugin or theme development, it can help you by creating the boilerplate code for things like new plugins, new themes, new custom post types, and new taxonomies.

Check this out: you can even use the WP-CLI to [install a fresh copy of WordPress](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/handbook/how-to/how-to-install/)!

Well, I know that was a bit of a whirlwind, but I hope it was interesting. As you can see, the _WP-CLI_ is quite powerful and can be used for scripting common tasks that could also be performed manually in the _Admin area_ as well as to perform some tasks that aren't possible from the _Admin area_. I hope you'll check it out!
