---
layout: default
title: "15.2 Migrating Between Environments and Deploying to Production"
published: true
---

# 15.2 Migrating Between Environments and Deploying to Production

As we touched on a few weeks ago, migrating between development, staging, and production environments (the latter of which is referred to as deploying to production) can be an involved process. [WordPress Developer Resources provides a document explaining the process of migrating WordPress manually](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/upgrade/migrating/). As we've already discussed, in order to migrate between servers, you need to copy the files and the database to the new server. You then need to update the database settings in the wp-config.php file, which look something like this:

```php
define('DB_NAME', 'databasename');

define('DB_USER', 'username');

define('DB_PASSWORD', 'password');

define('DB_HOST', 'localhost');
```

If you are migrating between locations on a single server, you may be able to just copy the files and then use the database from the former environment for the new environment, saving yourself having to copy the database and update the wp-config.php file.

Either way, when migrating between environments, you generally need to change the site URL. I mentioned briefly in the tutorial about _Local_ that it takes care of updating the site URL for us, but I didn't explain what that looks like. There are two options that are stored in the _wp_options_ table that contain the site URL - we've looked at these settings within the _Admin area_ under _Settings > General_ and they are labeled _WordPress Address (URL)_ and _Site Address (URL)_. Unfortunately, unless you change those two settings on the former environment immediately before migrating the site (which doesn't make sense if you plan to keep using the former environment), you will need to update them in the database, update them using PHP functions, update them using the _WP-CLI_ (command line interface), or override them in the wp-config.php file, which is not recommended other than as a temporary fix. Additionally, WordPress Core, themes, and plugins often use absolute URLs instead of relative URLs, so in addition to changing those two values we also usually need to update URLs in post/page content and in various other options and meta values. To update some of these using the database, you could use SQL statements similar to these:

```sql
-- note that wp_ at the beginning of the table names is the default prefix 
-- defined in wp-config.php - change this to match your prefix

UPDATE wp_options SET option_value = replace(option_value, 'http://www.oldurl', 'http://www.newurl') WHERE option_name = 'home' OR option_name = 'siteurl';

UPDATE wp_posts SET post_content = replace(post_content, 'http://www.oldurl', 'http://www.newurl');

UPDATE wp_postmeta SET meta_value = replace(meta_value,'http://www.oldurl','http://www.newurl');

-- thanks to https://wpbeaches.com/updating-wordpress-mysql-database-after-moving-to-a-new-url/ for the queries
```

_However_, due to WordPress using PHP serialization (which includes character counts) for some field values, it is possible that the last query can cause some values to become unusable when the character counts don't match. Additionally, there may be other database tables that contain URLs that need to be fixed and those locations are also likely to experience PHP serialization-related issues. Consequently, it's sometimes best to run the first two of those queries and then manually go over each page and post on the site to make sure that links, images, and other resources are being referenced from the correct URL.

If you have access to the _WP-CLI_, you can use this command instead of having to run those SQL queries, which properly and safely handles PHP serialized values:

```
wp search-replace 'example.dev' 'example.com' --skip-columns=guid
```

Or you could use these commands if you just want to change the two options and not change post content, other options, or meta values:

```
wp option update home 'https://example.com'
wp option update siteurl 'https://example.com'
```

Keep in mind that, regardless of the process you use, you should carefully check over your entire site after migration to ensure that everything works correctly and refers to the correct URLs.

By the way, if you are moving an existing site to a new server and not changing the site URL, you can copy the files and database and then update the database configuration in wp-config.php and you should be good to go - the URL isn't changing, so much of the complexity is gone.

Is there an easier way? Yes, there is! There are various plugins and remote management tools that assist you with migration. Some of these require specific server components that may or may not be available on all servers, so there's no guaranteee that a specific plugin will be able to work on a particular server; however, I've found one plugin that is free and has minimal server requirements, so let's try it out!

1. From the _Admin area_ of your _Tutorial Site_, go to _Plugins > Add New Plugin_.
2. Search for _Migrate Guru_ and install and activate the plugin that shows up as _Migrate Guru: Migrate & Clone WordPress Free_.
3. Click _Dashboard_ on the _Admin menu_.
4. Click _Migrate Guru_ on the _Admin menu_.
5. Enter your email address in the box provided, accept the terms, and click _Migrate_.
6. Select the host that you are transferring your site to.
7. Install WordPress on the destination host and then install _Migrate Guru_ on that copy of WordPress.
8. Find the _Migration Key_ at the bottom of the _Migrate Guru_ page in the _Admin area_ of the destination copy of WordPress and copy the key.
9. Return to the Migrate Guru screen from the source and paste the migration key into the proper box.
10. If necessary, select additional options, such as additional folders or database tables that you want to migrate. Then click _Migrate_.
11. You will need to wait several minutes for the details to be validated and then a progress screen will appear and you can watch the migration process happen or you can go about doing other things and the process will continue. You should have received an email confirming that the process started, which includes a link to the progress page. Once the process is complete, you will receive an additional email.
12. Eventually, you will receive an email, and if you kept the progress page open in your browser you will see a message in-browser, that the migration is complete! Click the link/button to view your site on the destination host.

You should now see your entire site on the destination and should be able to log in with your original username and password (not the one that was temporarily created on the destination server). You will likely see some messages from some plugins, particularly security-related plugins and those that require a connection to an external server, that you will need to attend to. _wpForo_ may need to apply an automated fix. You may also need to re-run the _BPS Setup Wizard_.

Remember, anytime you migrate a site, you should carefully check your site to ensure that everything copied correctly and is working properly on the destination server, so that is what we would need to do to finish this process.
